Malaysia can’t afford to take Bangladesh lightly
PETALING JAYA: The Harimau Malaya know fully well that at this stage where the stakes are high it would be foolish to take their lesser known opponents lightly.

Although Bangladesh are ranked 188th in the world, Malaysia know they are not easy meat.

In the last two fixtures against the Bengal Tigers, Malaysia, ranked 154th, were held twice in friendly matches.

On Nov 20, 2012, the match ended 1-1 and on Aug 29, 2015, it was 0-0.

This time, the proposition is different for both teams.

Malaysia are gunning for a big win in their last Group E match of the Asian Cup qualifiers which could lead them to the promised land. For Bangladesh, whose hopes have ended after two defeats, they will be looking for some consolation from the qualifiers.

National coach Kim Pan-gon was surprised when told that Malaysia failed to win in their last two meetings.
“I was not aware of that at all,” he said at the pre-match press conference at the Grand Dorsett Hotel here yesterday.

“I do not know the history, but the Bangladesh team are different now. I am only concerned about the present.

“When they played Bahrain and Turkmenistan, they were outstanding in terms of organisation.

“Bangladesh are strong opponents. We must be well prepared in all elements, technical, tactical and mental. We will approach this game properly. We will not disrespect them at all.

“But I have full confidence in my boys. Our players will play a good game tomorrow (today), especially knowing what’s at stake.”

Pan-gon also said Bangladesh, coached by Spaniard Javier Cabrera, can create chances with their tactical discipline but the one thing he has asked his boys to keep an eye on are two particular players.

Their wing backs Yeasin Arafat and Bishwanath Ghose have been a bane for the opposition with their long throw-ins.

Malaysia were on a three-game winning streak before the 1-2 defeat against Bahrain. So it was not surprising to see the sullen expression on the players’ faces.

But Pan-gon said as professionals, they have to bounce back and believe that they are ready for another battle.

“The players were rightly disappointed. We made mistakes, but we’re eager to improve.

“I highly respect the passion of the players. Thus far, they did 100% for the country.”

However, Pan-gon said if he could successfully lead the team to the Cup finals, it was not because of him alone but all parties who worked hard in developing the game in the country.

“I have some achievements of my own but if we qualify for the Asian Cup, it should be a great honour to me but that’s not because of what I did but also the football fraternity that have worked together.

“So, if we achieve the target, I think it’s an honour for Malaysian football as well.”