A dive in Malaysian quality
IS Malaysian diving going downhill?

Despite the divers' best efforts at the Tokyo Olympics, none made the podium for the first time since the 2012 London Games.

Malaysia had won a bronze and a silver at the 2012 London and 2016 Rio Olympics, respectively.
This is definitely worrying for Malaysian diving fans.
If nothing proactive is done soon, Malaysia may just disappear from the world's diving map.

The Tokyo diving event proves that other nations have caught up and made inroads since the Rio Olympics.

The Sports Ministry and the National Sports Council (NSC) together with Malaysia Swimming must come up with effective strategies to help the national divers improve in all aspects. More efforts must also be taken to unearth more divers with talent.

Credit to Pandelela Rinong, however, as she tried her best to, at least, end Malaysia's diving campaign in Tokyo with a medal yesterday.

However, things went wrong for the four-time Olympian when she flopped her opening dive, gaining only 18.00 points from the judges in the women's 10m platform final.

Although Pandelela bounced back by recording 71.05 points in her second dive, she could not catch up and fight for medals.

She finished last in the 12-field final by posting 245.85 points in the event won by China's 14-year-old sensation Quan Hongchan.

It was certainly a disappointing end for Pandelela, who was expected to challenge for the podium after falling short in the platform synchro with Leong Mun Yee last week.

Despite the setback in Tokyo, she is still the most successful Malaysian diver at the Olympics, having won bronze (platform) in London and silver (platform synchro with Cheong Jun Hoong) in Rio.

Known for her fighting qualities, Pandelela, the World Cup winner in May, is not finished yet.

With the Paris Games only three years from now, the Sarawak-born will continue and prepare for her fifth Olympic outing.

"I didn't expect that to happen during my first dive. When I was doing my run-up to the dive, I slipped, and that affected my momentum," Pandelela told Bernama yesterday.

"I tried to control my dive, but there was nothing much I could have done.

"After that, I was just playing catch-up with the other divers, and it just didn't work out for me.

"I accept the decision and the score. I guess I'm just really unlucky this time. It's just not meant to be."

Nonetheless, Pandelela has taken the poor showing in her stride and has vowed to keep going to have another crack at the 2024 Paris Olympics.

"I will definitely compete in the next Olympics. I am not too disheartened as this is not my last Olympics," said Pandelela, who will be 31 in 2024.

"I will work harder so that I can push on and qualify for the Paris edition."