Squash fraternity rally around Sivasangari
THE Malaysian squash fraternity is stunned and shocked after learning about national No 1 S. Sivasangari's horror accident.

The 23-year-old was involved in a major car crash on Sunday as the car she was in rear-ended a lorry along the Maju Expressway.

The Kedah-born was rescued from the car before it caught fire and was rushed to the Putrajaya Hospital for treatment.

She has undergone two surgeries but is in a stable condition.

Nevertheless, news of Sivasangari's accident certainly shook the squash community, which is a closed-knitted group.


"I was shocked when I heard about it," said former world No 5 Low Wee Wern.

"We read about accidents very often, but for it to happen to someone we know hits differently.

"I wish Sivasangari all the very best in her recovery. She is still young and has a long life ahead of her.

"I hope her parents and family will have the strength during this challenging time."

World No 92 Lai Wen Li, who is one of Sivasangari's closest friends, was equally stunned.

"I visited her at the hospital, and she is much better now," said Wen Li.

"Sivasangari is one of my closest friends. She has always been there through my ups and downs, and now I will be there for her.

"I know she's a strong girl with good character, and I am confident she will get through this and recover as soon as possible.

"All I wish for her now is a speedy recovery, and I'll be praying for her."

Sivasangari will now miss the Birmingham Commonwealth Games from July 28-Aug 8, in which she was also chosen as the nation's flagbearer.

"Fortunately, she is stable now. She has a large gash on her forehead, a concussion, some nasal issues, and doctors are also suspecting a fracture although that needs further examination," said Squash Racquets Association of Malaysia (SRAM) director Major (Rtd) S. Maniam.

"The positive note is that she is awake and able to have conversations. The doctors are confident she will fully recover, although that may take some time.

"She will miss the Commonwealth Games. It is cruel as she's entering the peak years of her career and has been playing well.

"But she's a strong-willed person and has always shown resilience both in training and on the court. I hope she will come through this ordeal with flying colours."

National No 4 Chan Yiwen added that the Commonwealth Games squad will feel very different without Sivasangari's presence.

"But regardless of what happens, the rest of us will try our best to fill the void, and we're just hoping that she recovers soon," said Yiwen.