Malaysia coach says seven points will take team through
PETALING JAYA: The Malaysian football team will be on a mission to collect seven points to earn a spot in the 2023 Asian Cup.

Malaysia begin their campaign against Turkmenistan in a Group E match at the National Stadium in Bukit Jalil tonight and South Korean coach Kim Pan-gon feels it is what the national side needs to achieve to be on the safe side.

The other teams in Group E are Bahrain, who are 89th in the FIFA rankings and Bangladesh (188). Malaysia are ranked 154 and while Turkmenistan are 134.

“We had waited for this competition for long, we are excited and we are ready to give a good game for the Malaysian supporters. We will try our best to get the best results,” said Pan-gon in the pre-match press conference yesterday,

“We want to dominate and control the game to win. We always want to have the same approach for our matches no matter who we play.

“We have analysed our opponents and I am confident we can get a positive result.

“Getting seven points will put us in a safe position to qualify for the Asian Cup but I believe Turkmenistan will have their targets as well for the match.
“They are being coached by the same coach for some time and have their own challenges but I believe we are ready.

“We have assembled the best players in Malaysia, my job is to guide them to do well and I hope they can show spirit and attitude to fight for Malaysia and our supporters,” said the 53-year-old coach, who added that veteran midfielder Safiq Rahim and winger Akhyar Rashid, who missed training on Monday due to knocks, will be ready for tonight’s game.

Turkmenistan are coached by Yazguly Hojageldyyew who is on his third stint after previously coaching the team in 2010-2013 and 2017-2019.

However, it depends if Turkmenistan can get their act together right from the opening match as they missed a year of competitive matches due to the Covid-19 pandemic.

Hojageldyyew’s squad came early to Malaysia one week ago to acclimatise. They also had a warm-up match with Thailand before heading to Kuala Lumpur, which ended with a 1-0 loss on May 27.

The Turkmen will be banking on 32-year-old striker Arslanmyrat Amanow to lead their qualifying campaign.

Team skipper Amanow has scored 13 goals from 49 appearance and is only three goals away from matching leading Turkmenistan goalscorer Wladimir Bayramow, who has 16 goals.

But Hojageldyyew said they will play as a unit and not for individual glory.

“We did not have much time to prepare for the qualifiers this time due to the Covid-19 pandemic.

“We would be better prepared if we had more matches to play,” said Hojageldyyew, who guided the team to their second appearance in the Asian Cup in the 2019 edition hosted by United Arab Emirates.

“We will have to find solutions, it will be hard for everyone and we will be playing a night game and then evening matches, so we’ll see how it goes.