Malaysia overpower Turkmenistan in Asian Cup qualifier
KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia started their Asian Cup football qualifying campaign on a bright note by beating 10-man Turkmenistan 3-1 in Group E at the National Stadium in Bukit Jalil today.

Harimau Malaya were in fast and furious mode from the first whistle with the strikeforce of Darren Lok, Safawi Rasid, Arif Aiman Hanafi and Faisal Halim attacking the Turkmenistan backline.

Malaysia's high pressing caught Turkmenistan off guard, and they struggled to move the ball away from their danger zone, allowing the hosts to slam in two goals in the opening 15 minutes.

Safawi drew first blood in the 11th minute before diminutive winger Faisal doubled Malaysia's lead in the 16th minute.
After taking a two-goal lead, Malaysia slowed down their tempo, and this allowed Turkmenistan to gain a foothold in the match.


A string of blunders from the Malaysian backline of Shahrul Saad, Dion Cools and goalkeeper Farizal Marlias saw the Turkmen reducing the deficit through striker Altymyrat Annadurdyýew in the 37th minute.
Encouraged by the goal, Turkmenistan started to pressure the tiring Malaysians, but against the run of play left-back Corbin Ong went on a solo run and put the ball past Turkmennistan goalkeeper Mammet Orazmuhammedow two minutes into the first half added time to restore Malaysia's two-goal cushion.

The two-goal advantage saw Malaysia opting for game management in the second half with coach Kim Pan Gon bringing in Junior Eldstal for Safawi to shore up the defence in the 63rd minute and launch counter-attacks.

Pan Gon then brought in fresh legs in Mohamadou Sumareh and Syafiq Ahmad for the fading Faisal and Arif in the 74th minute. The South Korean coach also sent in naturalised Brazilian forward Guilherme De Paula for Daren Lok and veteran midfielder Safiq Rahim for Azam Azih in the 83rd minute.

The substitutions brought back stability and control to the Malaysian side, and in the dying minutes, Turkmenistan were reduced to 10 men after Bashimov Abdy was sent off for bringing down Sumareh.
