Malaysia must gear up to fight top guns in the Finals
KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia may be back among the Asian footballing elites again after 15 years but they want to avoid being the whipping boys in the Asian Cup Finals.

On Tuesday, the Harimau Malaya side led by coach Kim Pan-gon achieved their mission to qualify for the 24-team continental showpiece event after a solid 4-1 win over Bangladesh at the National Stadium in Bukit Jalil.

Malaysia finished their Group E campaign on six points to confirm one of the five slots for the second placed teams at stake.

It is the first time since the 1980 Asian Cup in Kuwait that Malaysia qualified on merit.

Malaysia were co-hosts with Vietnam, Indonesia and Thailand when they featured in the 2007 Asian Cup.

Football Association of Malaysia president Datuk Hamidin Mohd Amin said they need to use the one year space to prepare well for the big mission.

“We will discuss later with Pan-gon on what needs to be done to prepare a stronger squad.
“Among the preparations include holding friendly matches with higher ranked teams and no longer just from the South-East Asia region.

“We will see if the Asian Cup can be played next year as there is the possibility of it taking place in 2024 depending on who will be the next host, which may be decided by October.

“If it’s in 2024, it is good as we have a longer time to prepare.

“We cannot just play in the Asean region anymore, I want to see us go further and Pan-gon has already made preparations for the whole year. I am sure he knows what he is doing.

“When we get to the Asian Cup Finals, we don’t want to be bullied. “It is possible we will be drawn against strong teams like South Korea, Japan and Australia, so let’s fight,” said Hamidin.

China pulled out as the hosts for the Asian Cup Finals recently because of the Covid-19 situation.

Pan-gon also paid his tribute to the fans, the players and the local football clubs for contributing to Malaysia’s successful mission to qualify for the Asian Cup while stressing the team must continue to improve at the same time.

“We appreciate all the fans who came to support us.

“Also the Super League clubs, head coaches, club owners especially JDT (Johor Darul Ta’zim). Thank you JDT for sending 15 players for the training session.

“I’m also proud of the players, they showed how good they were, they gave their everything.

“We delivered what the fans wanted. The players showed their professionalism and their love for the country.

“Also the FA of Malaysia president Datuk Hamidin as he made sure only the best were given to the players.

“It is a great moment for Malaysian football. Also the Prime Minister (Datuk Seri Ismail Sabri Yaakob) who came twice to support us. We need to play a more dynamic attacking style.

“The fans come to watch this and we do not want a situation where we slowed down after scoring one or two goals,” said the South Korean.