Malaysia Open: Sze Fei-Izzuddin cap off opening round with swift win
Goh Sze Fei-Nur Izzuddin recorded the most impressive victory of all home shuttlers on the opening day of the Malaysia Open on Tuesday with a straight-game victory as the rest produced lukewarm results.
The German Open champions needed just 36 minutes to overcome Japan’s Keiichiro Matsui-Yoshinori Takeuchi 21-12, 21-12 in the final match of the day.
The victory booked them a meeting against seventh seeds Satwiksairaj Rankireddy-Chirag Shetty in the second round on Thursday.
Tuesday’s morning session saw Goh Soon Huat-Shevon Lai become the first Malaysian pair through, courtesy of a 21-18, 19-21, 21-18 victory over Tan Kian Meng-Lai Pei Jing in an all-local affair.
They next play South Korea’s Kim Won-ho-Jeong Na-eun.
Lai was grateful to have come through on home soil, especially after their challenge in Indonesia were derailed from a bout of food poisoning.
“It’s always tough to face our own team-mates but the draw is such. Our short term goal is to try and reach at least the quarter-finals in the next few tournaments,” she said.
Ong Yew Sin-Teo Ee Yi were another pair who won their all-Malaysian contest, beating Junaidi Arif-Muhammad Haikal 21-19, 21-13.
Kian Meng, meanwhile, made amends with Tan Wee Kiong in the men’s doubles after prevailing against Danish duo Jeppe Bay-Lasse Molhede 18-21, 21-15, 21-17 to set up a second-round meet against Liu Yu Chen-Ou Xuan Yi.
Low Yeen Yuan-Valeree Siow also impressed as they persevered in three games against Germans Linda Efler-Isabel Lohau 17-21, 21-16, 21-19 in a 73-minute battle, with the young Malaysians taking advantage of the vociferous crowd support at the end to win.
“The crowd were amazing and gave the lift needed, especially during the crucial moments. We are thankful for their support,” said Siow.
However they have an almighty task on Thursday when they square up against top seeds Chen Qing Chen-Jia Yi Fan.
The rest of the Malaysians all succumbed on Tuesday, including Liew Daren, Choong Hon Jian-Peck Yen Wei, Chan Peng Soon-Cheah Yee See, and Goh V Shem-Low Juan Shen