Malaysia need to move up
Amid the joy of qualifying for the Asian Cup, what's next for the national football team? Or specifically, what will be their direction?

Malaysia have about a year to prepare for the Asian showpiece, which is scheduled for June 16-July 16 next year in a yet-to-be-named country, The Asian Football Confederation's (AFC) are looking for a new host following China's withdrawal due to Covid-19.

According to the whispers in the AFC corridors, Japan, South Korea and Australia are interested in hosting the Asian Cup. Qatar has indicated its willingness to host if the event is held in 2024.

Undoubtedly, FAM will have faith in new national coach Kim Pan Gon preparing the team well after their fine show in the recent Asian Cup qualifiers.
But Pan Gon, like every Malaysian fan, will hope that Harimau Malaya get a good draw in the 24-team Asian Cup Finals.


But that looks unlikely if Malaysia do not improve their ranking.
Based on the current list, World No 154 Malaysia will be placed in Pot 4 of the Asian Cup draw with India (106), Thailand (111), Tajikistan (114), Hong Kong (147) and Indonesia (159).

If Harimau Malaya can move up to Pot 3, which is for teams in the region of world No 97-100, it will put them in better stead for the Asian Cup draw.

However, with only two Fifa international windows available - Sept 19-27 and March 20-28 next year, Malaysia have only a maximum of four matches to improve their ranking. And this is provided that they win their international friendlies.

That makes it impossible for Harimau Malaya to gain enough ranking points to charge up 54 rungs up the world rankings.

FA of Malaysia president Datuk Hamidin Amin has said that the national body are ready to invest more to improve the national team.

"Pan Gon has requested many things from us. We have no issues providing them as he knows how to utilise them well.

"When someone demands something, he must justify it, and Pan Gon has proved that it is for the betterment of the team."

FAM are ready to put in the money, but in a footballing sense, they face a big challenge that involves massive logistic arrangements and football diplomacy.

Playing against higher-ranked teams will be ideal, as victories will mean significantly more Fifa points for Malaysia. But higher-ranked teams generally avoid meeting those below them to avoid defeats that will be detrimental to their world rankings.

Hosting international friendlies by inviting higher-ranked nations is a solution for Malaysia, but this requires a lot of planning. And there is no guarantee that Malaysia will win.

The national team's poor record against Arab teams is another issue that Harimau Malaya will have to deal with.

Malaysia's last win over a Middle East team was in 2010 when they beat Yemen 1-0 in a friendly at the National Stadium in Bukit Jalil.

Though Malaysia lost 2-1 to Bahrain in a Group E Asian Cup qualifier last week, it should be viewed in positive light, as not much separated the two sides, and Pan Gon's team are evidently catching up.

But FAM still need careful and comprehensive planning for the national team to be able to stand their own against the likes of Saudi Arabia, Qatar and UAE. So far, only South Korea and Japan from this part of Asia have been able to do so.