Gloomy skies add to Harimau Malaya's woes in 1-2 defeat to Bahrain
PETALING JAYA: Bahrain's football team, the Muharabi Dilmun (Dilmun's Warriors) dashed the hearts of almost 65,000 Malaysians under gloomy skies in Bukit Jalil.

Harimau Malaya were beaten 1-2 by Bahrain in the AFC Asian Cup final round Group E qualifying match at the National Stadium in Bukit Jalil on Saturday (June 11).

Malaysia were the better side in the first half, creating many chances despite the tattered pitch, which was caused by a heavy downpour.

As early as the second minute, midfielder Nazmi Faiz Mansor got the first chance when he took a shot from outside the penalty box, but Bahrain's goalkeeper Syed Mohamed Abbas was able to smother it.

It wasn't the only attempt thwarted by Abbas, as he proved to be a real wall to the Malaysians.

In the 30th minute, Akhyar Rashid was released by a superb pass from Syamer Kutty Abba, but Abbas superbly saved the winger's placed shot.

Centreback Junior Eldstal was guilty of missing two excellent chances in the fifth and 13th minute, but in defence, he showed steel and guile alongside Dion Cools and Ahmad Khuzaimi Piee.
Malaysia broke the deadlock in the 54th minute when Khuzaimi made a darting run on the left and unleashed a cross, which Mohamadou Sumareh tapped in without pressure from the Bahraini defence.

That did not last long, though.

Two minutes later, Bahrain equalised through Ali Abdulla Haram by capitalising on a defensive melee, which was caused by a long ball from Mahdi Faisal Alhumaidan.

In the 60th minute, Kim Pan-gon brought on three changes by substituting Sumareh, Darren Lok and Nazmi with Arif Aiman Hanapi, Guilherme De Paula and Safiq Rahim.

In the 70th minute, Malaysia added more ammunition by bringing on another striker, Syafiq Ahmad.

But it was Bahrain who took the lead.

Goalkeeper Farizal Marlias conceded a penalty in the 79th minute when he fouled Ali Jaafar Madan in the penalty box. Striker Abdullah Yusuf Helal scored from the spot.

The last throw of the dice was to bring on Safawi Rasid for Matthew Davies in the 83rd minute.

But it was not enough as Bahrain held on to their win and top Group E with six points from two games, while Malaysia are second with three points.