Shock waves from Welson
Welson Sim dropped a bombshell yesterday by resigning from Malaysia Swimming (MS) and the national team.

The 24-year-old Sarawakian, who is a three-time Sea Games champion, and a two-time Olympian, tendered his resignation to MS and the National Sports Council (NSC) on Feb 7.

Welson's resignation came as big surprise as he has been Malaysia's leading swimmer for many years although he was overshadowed by the rise of 19-year-old Khiew Hoe Yean recently.

It is also a huge decision by Welson especially with the Hanoi Sea Games due to take place from May 12-23.
Welson's departure from the national team is very much similar to shuttler Lee Zii Jia who caused a furore last month by quitting the Badminton Association of Malaysia.


There were speculations that Welson - who is one of four swimmers in the national programme besides Hoe Yean, Phee Jinq En and Arvin Shaun Singh Chahal - had a falling out with national coach Chris Martin.

Despite the shock decision, Welson, who is the national record holder for the 100m, 200m and 400m freestyle, has clarified that he is not quitting the sport.

"I will still be around and I still plan to continue swimming," said Welson.

"I will continue to train as my plan is to compete in the Malaysian Open next month."

MS secretary-general Mae Chen said that Welson wants to try a different approach in training to raise his level once again.

"Welson submitted his letter of resignation to us and to NSC on Feb 7, and it is with immediate effect that he will no longer be a part of the national team," said Mae.

"We actually had a very long talk with him before the Chinese New Year about the pros and cons on leaving the national team.

"But ultimately he still decided to come to this decision and we can only respect his wishes.

"Right now we are not sure what his plans are except that he wants to pursue a different programme in order to get himself back to the level that he once was.

"He will, however, still be staying in Malaysia and will continue to train in Malaysia at his own planning."

Mae, however, said Welson's resignation will not throw their Sea ames planning into disarray.

"For the Sea Games, it has been made clear that whoever meets the qualifying mark will get to compete," said Mae.

"And for these Sea Games, the Olympic Council of Malaysia have given a pretty lenient qualifying standard, which will be based on timings from 2018 due to the lack of competitions over the last two years.

"As of now, Welson should still qualify, at least under the B time where he will need to fund his own expenses.

"Of course, we will still decide on the final selection after our Malaysian Open from March 4-6. I still expect Welson to compete in the Malaysian Open although we will have to wait and see if he submits his registration through Sarawak," added Mae.