Juniors out to live up to reputation in Pattaya
MALAYSIA are among the favourites to dominate proceedings at the Asian Junior Squash Championships, which finally make a return after a lengthy absence.

The Asian junior meet, which used to be an annual event, has not been held since the 2019 edition in Macau due to the Covid-19 pandemic.

The tournament starts today in Pattaya, Thailand.

The Squash Racquets Association of Malaysia (SRAM) have sent a squad of 32 players as they look to live up to their reputation as Asia's best.
"It is definitely very much welcomed to see the Asian Juniors back on the calendar after so long," said SRAM director Major (Rtd) S. Maniam.


"It is a big boost for the junior players in Malaysia and Asia, who have not had many tournaments since the Covid-19 pandemic.

"For us, we will always have our usual high standards. We are targetting a minimum of three titles.

"But it is really hard to gauge the competition because we have not seen the players from other countries for so long.

"We know that Pakistan have a strong contender in the boys' under-19 category while India also have a very strong player in the girls' under-15 category."

Malaysia, who have not won the boys' under-19 title since Ivan Yuen's triumph in 2009, will be banking on their World Junior Championships-bound trio of C. Ameeshenraj, Joachim Chuah and Andrik Lim to make a difference.

Bristol-based Ameeshenraj is the top seed, while Joachim and Andrik are joint third-fourth seeds, respectively.

The fourth Malaysian boy in the under-19 category is Sarawakian Hi Jia Rong, who is seeded joint fifth-eighth.

Besides that, Malaysia are also heavily favoured to retain the girls' under-19 category with a strong representation featuring Aira Azman, Yee Xin Ying, K. Sehveetraa and Wong Heng Wai.

Aira, a four-time Asian Junior winner, will be going for her fifth but first under-19 title, and she is the top seed.

The other juniors who are tipped to make an impression include Harith Danial (boys under-17), M. Nickhileswar (boys' under-15), Whitney Isabelle Wilson (girls' under-15) and Harleein Tan (girls' under-13).

The squad

Boys' under-13: Sim Yeak Wei, Raziq Putra Fakhrur Razi, Haiqal Hazim, W. Lokkhesh;

Under-15: Altamis Aqhar Sallam, M. Nickhileswar, Aqil Mirza Naim, Jayden Oon;

Under-17: Harith Danial, Low Wa Sern, Tay Jun Qian, Hashvind Kugan Thirugnanam;

Under-19: C. Ameeshenraj, Joach,Asian Junior Squash Championshipsim Chuah, Andrik Lim, Hi Jia Rong.

Girls' under-13: Harleein Tan, Ooi Wen Min, Yek Rui Jean, Emelda Camalia Abdul Razak;

Under-15: Whitney Isabelle Wilson, Doyce Lee, Dayana Qistina Anuar, Haneesha Veerakumar;

Under-17: U. Thanusaa, Goh Zhi Xuan, Anrie Goh, K. Vinikasheinie;

Under-19: Aira Azman, Yee Xin Ying, K. Sehveetrraa, Wong Heng Wai.