Malaysia continue to shine on junior platform after Asian high
PETALING JAYA: Malaysia’s outstanding performance in the Asian Junior Championships in Pattaya is an indication that the Covid-19 pandemic did not cripple the national squash development programme.

Squash Racquets Association of Malaysia (SRAM) players secured four of the eight titles and it could have been five if not for an injury to U. Thanusaa who was the favourite to bag the girls’ Under-17 crown.

Thanusaa fell in the quarter-finals but Aira Azman (girls’ Under-19), Harleein Tan (girls’ Under-13), M. Nickhileswar (boys’ Under-15) and Sim Yeak Wei (boys’ Under-13) ensured Malaysia were the most successful nation again.

SRAM sent 32 players, 17 of them reached the semi-finals while nine made it to the finals in seven events.

Hong Kong had three finalists while Pakistan, India, South Korea and Japan had a finalist each.

SRAM director of coaching Major (rtd) S. Maniam said the results showed the nation’s depth at the grassroots.

“We had 17 semi-finalists while Hong Kong and India only had five each in the semi-finals. We had nine finalists. That showed the kind of depth we had.
“We could have got a fifth if not for Thanusaa’s injury. Despite that, we have done amazingly well.

“We are on the right track but we will not rest on our laurels and will continue working harder to bridge the gap between us and the world’s top juniors from Pakistan, England and particularly from Egypt.”

The results also augur well for the squad heading to the World Junior Championships in Nancy, France, from Aug 11-21.

The boys’ team consist of C. Ameeshenraj, Joachim Chuah, Andrik Lim, Harith Daniel and Low Wa Sern while the women are made up of Aira, Yee Xin Ying, K. Sehveetrraa, Thanusaa and Goh Zhi Xuan.

Joachim and Wa Sern reached the final of the boys’ Under-19 and Under-17 respectively while Ameeshenraj (Under-19), Andrik (Under-19) and Harith (Under-17) were semi-finalists in Pattaya.

With the Egyptians the ones to beat in the individual event in Nancy, Maniam expects Malaysia to do well in the team event.

Aira and Xin Ying are also expected to have a good run although they may not be in a position to challenge for the title at the World Juniors.