Affiliates in favour of having new national body amid objection
KUALA LUMPUR: Despite the objection of Malaysia Swimming (MS), many affiliates of the Paralympic Council of Malaysia (PCM) want to set up a new national body to govern para swimming in Malaysia.

The affiliates, who attended PCM's annual general meeting in Kampung Pandan today, voted 16-1 in favour of having a new national para swimming body.

A total of eight state swimming associations have indicated their interest to join the new national para swimming association.

Para swimming in Malaysia is currently governed by MS who fear that setting up a new body could cause conflict. MS are also in charge of able bodied swimming, diving and water polo.
PCM secretary-general First Admiral (rtd) Datuk Subramaniam Raman Nair disclosed that the decision to set up a new national para swimming body was due to impending changes at the international level.


"The International Paralympic Committee (IPC) currently govern sports such as athletics, swimming, powerlifting and shooting, among others, directly.
"They, however, have indicated that they hope to set up individual international federations for these sports by 2026, and have urged member countries to set up their own national federations for these sports.

"FINA, with whom MS are affiliated to, are not in charge of para swimming at the international level.

"This realignment (at international level) is one of the reasons we need to set up a new national body specifically for para swimming. It is not because we do not want MS to be in charge anymore.

"It is purely a professional decision. In fact, MS are one of the founding members of PCM, and we have great respect for them."

Subramaniam added that having a dedicated national body for swimming would also allow for better focus on grassroots development.

"There are roughly 150 to 180 events in para swimming. In addition to the many events already part of able bodied swimming that is a lot (for one association to manage)," said Subramaniam.

"If we have a dedicated national federation for swimming, that would allow for better talent development at the state level."

He said the situation was different for sports such as badminton where BWF, the world body for able-bodied badminton, are also the world body for para badminton.