Pandelela, Nur Dhabitah on track for World Championships title
The 2017 World Championships will always be in the memories of Malaysian fans. It was that year Malaysia won their first diving world title through the now-retired Cheong Jun Hoong in the women's 10m platform.

Five years on, also in Budapest, World Cup champion Pandelela Rinong and Nur Dhabitah Sabri have a chance to create history again and join Jun Hoong as Malaysia's world champions.

With only nine entries in the platform synchro event, Pandelela-Dhabitah are almost certain of a spot in the final bar a spectacular meltdown when they get into the action yesterday.

Although Pandelela and Dhabitah are relatively new pairing, their experience in individual and synchro events over the years could be the key to dethroning China, like what Jun Hoong achieved in 2017, and taking the world title.
Pandelela and Dhabitah were paired up after the retirement of Leong Mun Yee last year.


Pandelela-Mun Yee formed a formidable partnership, and their experience also saw them grab silver at the 2019 world meet in Gwangju.
However, China's Chen Yuxi-Quan Hongchan, teaming up for the first time, are the overwhelming favourites.

Yuxi regained supremacy when she defended her 10m platform individual gold while Olympic gold medallist Hongchan settled for silver.

And it's a telling factor that despite finishing second, Hongchan still finished a whopping 78 points ahead of bronze medal winner Pandelela.

Nevertheless, in what is a new Olympic cycle, rival countries are fielding new pairings, and Pandelela-Dhabitah, who grabbed the Sea Games gold in May, may fancy their chance of getting onto the podium.

For starters, Australia have their hopes in 14-year-old debutante Charli Petrov with Commonwealth Games champion Melissa Wu.

Delaney Schnell, who took silver for the United States in the platform synchro at the Tokyo Olympics last year, is chasing a place on the podium with Katrina Young.

Mexico have also opted for a new pairing in Samantha Jimenez Santos-Viviana Del Angel Peniche.

The Mexicans come with a pedigree, having taken bronze at the Tokyo Olympics through Alejandra Orozco-Gabriela Agundez.

Britain also have Emily Martin-Robyn Birch, while Japan can rely on Minami Itahashi-Matsuri Arai to surprise.

"It is the first major competition after the Tokyo Olympics, and some countries are using the world championships to test out the new combinations for the coming Olympic cycle," said Malaysia Swimming (MS) secretary general Mae Chen.

"We are also doing the same. Dhabitah previously focused on the 3m springboard, but she is now partnering Pandelela. We hope for the best."

Pandelela, who certainly redeemed herself with a bronze in the individual event, will be looking to the same in the synchro event.

At the Tokyo Olympics, Pandelela-Mun Yee were the biggest disappointment as they finished eighth in the final.

And she will be looking to bring all her experience into play to secure a second medal.

Meanwhile, on Tuesday, Jellson Jabillin-Hanis Nazirul Jaya Surya gave a good account by reaching the men's 10m platform synchro final for the first time.

Jellson-Hanis finished 11th with 322.35 points in the final.

China's Yang Hao-Lian Junjie took gold with 467.79 points ahead of Britain's Matthew Lee-Noah Williams (427.71) and Canada's Rylan Wiens-Nathan Zsombor-Murray (417.12).