[UPDATED] SEA Games 2022: Malaysia medal tally and highlights
All eyes in the region will be turning to Hanoi, Vietnam this May as the Southeast Asian Games, better known as SEA Games 2021, is set to take place from 12 to 23 May 2022. However, several events such as football and diving will kick off before the announced dates. It was originally scheduled to take place from 21 November to 2 December last year but had been postponed due to the rising Covid-19 cases in Vietnam at the time.

The 31st edition of the Games will feature 40 sports across 526 events, with a total of 5,467 athletes from the 11 Southeast Asian nations in participation. Team Malaysia will see 584 representatives competing in 37 out of the 40 sports.

National diver Nur Dhabitah Sabri, who won the hearts of Malaysians for placing fourth during the Tokyo Olympics last year, is the appointed flag bearer for the Malaysian delegation. Malaysian Youth and Sports Minister Ahmad Faisal Azumu has announced a target of 146 medals—consisting of 36 gold, 35 silver, and 75 bronze medals. If the country aims to finish in the top five, the contingent will need more than 36 gold medals to secure that position. Among the sports events expected to contribute to the target include athletics, diving, karate, and wushu.

“Out of the 584 athletes we are sending to the SEA Games, 378 will be taking part for the first time and we have no proven statistics to rely on,” the minister said.

“Fifteen sports are expected to contribute to the gold medal target based on current performance,” he added. “Diving and athletics will be our main gold medal hopes this time as we feel they are capable of winning more than five based on current performance.”

As of the time of writing, Nur Dhabitah Sabri has already bagged the first gold medal of the Games in the women’s 1m springboard event on 8 May. Fellow compatriot Kimberley Bong also secured the silver medal in the same event. Meanwhile, diving duo Ooi Tze Liang and Chew Yi Wei have also won gold in the synchronised 3m springboard event on the same day. 

Here are the top Malaysian athletes (read: medal prospects) to watch and when to catch them in action throughout the SEA Games.