Lucky break could be breakthrough for Tze Yong
IT was a lucky strike for Ng Tze Yong (pic).

The promising singles player has been promoted to play in his first Malaysian Open, thanks to the withdrawal of Denmark’s Anders Antonsen.

The Dane withdrew due to injury woes and Khosit Phetpradab was next in line but the Thai had to reject the invitation due to a flight problem and that saw world No. 48 Tze Yong making the cut.

“This is indeed a pleasant surprise. I never expected this at all,” said Tze Yong.
The Malaysian will face Lu Guangzu of China in the first round.

The first round is divided into two days with one half playing today and another half tomorrow. Tze Yong and Lee Zii Jia will get into action tomorrow while Liew Daren faces H.S. Prannoy today.

World No. 5 Zii Jia will face Nhat Nguyen of Ireland instead of Toma Junior Popov of France, who has withdrawn.
“I’ve never played against Guangzu before. He is a good player but I will be ready for sure,” said Tze Yong.

National singles coaching director Wong Choong Hann was happy that Tze Yong got a chance to experience a top-class tournament. And he believes it will stand him in good stead ahead of next month’s Commonwealth Games in Birmingham.

Tze Yong has also been listed for the Malaysian Masters next week and the Singapore Open after that.

“It’s a good chance for Tze Yong to play in front of his home fans. It will surely prepare him for the Commonwealth Games. If it’s too hectic, we will withdraw him from the Singapore Open. We will see how it goes,” he said.

It was also a good break for Yap Roy King-Chang Yee Jun as they have been promoted to play in the main draw of the Malaysian Open for the first time following the withdrawals of Leo Rolly-Daniel Marthin of Indonesia.

Roy King-Yee Jun will face Liu Yuchen-Ou Xuanyi of China today.

Meanwhile, Malaysia will be without a women’s singles player for the first time as none made the cut.

Said Choong Hann: “It’s unfortunate that S. Kisona missed the cut. She was the third reserve but the two players before her were promoted. We are rebuilding the women’s singles department, we can expect better participation from the girls next time.”