
National No 1 Squash Player Sivasangari Undergoes Surgery After Car Crash On MEX Highway
National women's number one squash player Sivasangari Subramaniam was involved in a car accident along the Maju Expressway (MEX) on Sunday morning, 26 June, sustaining serious injuries

According to The Star, the 23-year-old was the passenger of a car that crashed into the back of a one-tonne lorry.

A report by the Fire and Rescue Department said the accident occurred at about 3.46am and they arrived at the location at 4.12am. The vehicle had caught fire and Sivasangari had to be pulled out of the car and rushed to Putrajaya Hospital for treatment.

The driver of the car and the lorry driver did not sustain any injuries.
The squash athlete had to undergo immediate surgery, but is currently in stable condition

It is reported that Sivasangari sustained injuries to her head and spine, and underwent two surgeries.

"Fortunately, she is stable now. She has a large gash on her forehead, a concussion, some nasal issues, and doctors are also suspecting a fracture although that needs further examination," said Squash Racquets Association of Malaysia (SRAM) director Major Maniam, as quoted by New Straits Times.

"The positive note is that she is awake and able to have conversations. The doctors are confident she will fully recover, although that may take some time."
With the unfortunate incident, Sivasangari will not be able to attend the 2022 Commonwealth Games in Birmingham next month

The Kedahan is currently ranked 19 in the world and had just won her second National Championship title two weeks ago.

She was projected as a medal contender for the women's individual and doubles events at the Games and was also appointed as flagbearer for the national contingent alongside para-athlete Bonnie Bunyau Gustin.
"She will miss the Commonwealth Games. It is cruel as she's entering the peak years of her career and has been playing well," added Major Maniam.

"But she's a strong-willed person and has always shown resilience both in training and on the court. I hope she will come through this ordeal with flying colours."

