A selection of Malaysia stars
HE honour of best Malaysian athlete should go to Rachel Yeoh for true grit.

Rachel, 23, who contemplated retiring in 2017 due to injuries, continued Malaysia's success in the uneven bars (Farah Ann Abdul Hadi won gold in Manila in 2019).

"All these years, I was out of the limelight and many expected other gymnasts to win but I knew the best version of me would lead to something," she said.

NURUL SYASYA NADIAH ARIFFIN (SHOOTING)

SHE not only captured the women's 10m air pistol gold but also set a new Sea Games record. The 19-year-old debutante relegated three-time Olympian and six-time Sea Games gold medallist Tanyaporn Prucksakorn of Thailand into second place.

NUR ASSYIRA ZAINAL ABIDIN AND NATAHSYA SOON (MOUNTAIN BIKE)

IN a show of women power, the duo played a key role in Malaysia winning their first ever gold medal in mountain biking.

Riding in the third and fourth legs of the mixed team cross-country event after their male counterparts, both Assyira and Natahsya came to the fore for a golden ending.

NOR SARAH ADI (ATHLETICS)

SARAH, 21, emerged as the Wonder Woman of the Malaysian contingent after surprisingly winning the pole vault gold. The sprinter agreed to compete in the pole vault as a solidarity gesture to the Philippines as the event would have been scrapped due to lack of participation.

NUR DHABITAH SABRI (DIVING)

MALAYSIA'S flag-bearer Nur Dhabitah Sabri led by example, delivering the first gold of the games in the 1m springboard. She went on to partner Pandelela Rinong for the 10m platform synchro title.

ERVIN CHANG (GOLF)

ERVIN, 23, created history by becoming the first Malaysian to land a Sea Games individual golf gold. He later led Malaysia to their first team title in 21 years.

LIM KOK LEONG (CUE SPORTS)

KOK Leong's one gold and one silver is amazing. With no proper training programme, he was still able to win the snooker six-red gold. But in the 15-ball final, Kok Leong, 27, was outwitted by Thai legend James Wattana.

JUWAIDI MAZUKI (ARCHERY)

IT took compound archer Juwaidi nine years and five Sea Games to win his first individual gold. He also won the mixed team title with Fatin Nurfatehah Mat Salleh.

PROMISING ATHLETES

WUSHU new faces Clement Ting and Tan Zhi Yan produced flawless performances to win the men's changquan and taijiquan.

Clement contracted Covid-19 a month before the games and he trained in quarantine for 10 days.

Zhi Yan continued Malaysia's success in taijiquan (won by his coach, Loh Chon How, three years ago.

SEA GAMES debutants C. Shahmalarani and H. Sureeya Sankar sensationally struck gold as Malaysia surpassed their karate target.

Shahmalarani, 24, took the first gold in the women's below-55kg kumite.

Sureeya, who won the men's below 67kg kumite final, also helped Malaysia win the team gold.

FENCER Kaerlan Vinod Kamalanathan, 15, became the youngest Malaysian to win a Sea Games medal. He got a silver in the men's team foil event with Hans Yoong Wei Shen, Tristan Cheng Xing Han and Chong Hong Li.

WINNING one gold and one silver in her debut is indeed encouraging for diver Ong Ker Ying. Though the field was not strong in Hanoi, credit to Ker Ying for doing her part well.

BAM made a bold move by sending their second-stringers with a target of one gold medal. It paid off with mixed doubles Chen Tang Jie-Peck Yen Wei winning the mixed doubles gold and meeting BAM's target. The young shuttlers also took two silver and one bronze.

SPECIAL MENTIONS

KARATEKA R. Sharmendran maintained his supremacy with his third straight Sea Games gold, albeit in different categories. He won the men's Under-75 kumite title, just three months after returning to action from knee surgery.

IT was initially feared that the young bowling team will return empty-handed from Hanoi. However, they did well by bagging two bronze (men's and women's team) and one bronze (women's doubles).

It was the first time in 39 years Malaysia failed to win a gold in the Sea Games.

COVID-19 almost wreck bodybuilder Syarul Azman Mahen Abdullah's debut as he tested positive upon arrival in Hanoi. However, he was cleared to compete in the men's athletic physique event four days later and duly won gold.

It was a real Covid challenge for Syarul, having to take 15 RTK tests before being allowed to compete.

WUSHU'S Sydney Chin dedicated her taijiquan bronze to her mother who died a day before she left for Hanoi.

The teary 23-year-old revealed that it was her mother, who died of a heart attack, who introduced her to wushu.

IRFAN Shamsuddin delivered yet again, winning his fifth consecutive discus throw gold.

Although the 27-year-old's 58.26m effort was way off his national record, it was enough to help the athletics team meet their five-gold target.

THE Malaysian men's table tennis team surprised the form book by reaching the final after 29 years and were looking to win a gold after 47 years.

Despite a gallant effort, the team of Leong Chee Feng, Qi Shen Wong and Javen Choong lost 3-1 to Thailand. Second in the Sea Games was commendable as Malaysia had always struggled to even win bronze for years.

RECORDS

SHOOTER Nurul Syasya Nadiah Ariffin was the only Malaysian to break a Sea Games record. She posted 239.30 in the women's 10m air pistol to erase the previous mark of 234.80.

THE 4x100m men's team of Arsyad Md Saa, Zulfiqar Ismail, Azeem Fahmi and Haiqal Hanafi set a new national record of 39.09s en route to silver. The previous record of 39.27s was set in 2017 in Kuala Lumpur.

QUEENIE TING erased her national record of 48.56m in the women's discus with a throw of 52.36m to win silver.

NORLIYANA KAMARUDDIN won the women's heptathlon bronze with 5,262 points. The old record was 5,247.

MALAYSIAN swimmers Welson Sim, Lim Yin Chuen, Arvin Shaun Singh and Khiew Hoe Yean set a new 4x200m freestyle national record by clocking 7:19.75s en route to the silver. The previous mark was 7:26.74.

Bryan Leong set a new national record in the men's 50m freestyle by clocking 23.09s, erasing the previous mark of 23.10 set by Keith Lim in 2018 in Monte Carlo. However, he could only finish fifth.

Goh Chia Tong rewrote the women's national 1,500m freestyle record of 17:17.92 by clocking 17:07.64s. However, it was not enough to win a medal.

WEIGHTLIFTER Aniq Kasdan broke his one-year-old national record by 3kg with a total lift of 252kg for the bronze in the 55kg category.

Erry Hidayat set a new national record of 315kg en route to the bronze in the 73kg category. His previous national record was 312kg.

HEART BREAKS

GYMNAST Tan Fu Jie thought his 14.200 points in the pommel horse was enough for gold. However, the judges had other ideas, upgrading Vietnam's Dang Ngoc Xuan Thien's score from 13.800 to 14.400 for gold.

SILAT exponent AL Jufferi Jumari revealed that his three-year-old son was battling cancer after losing to Singapore's Abdul Raazaq Abdul Rashid in the Class F semi-final.

"Every time I cry, my son will console me and tell me he is OK," said a teary Al Jufferi in Hanoi after winning a bronze.

SPRINTER Azeem Fahmi was in tears after he was disqualified for a false start in his 100m heat, effectively ending Malaysia's hopes of winning the blue riband event. Compatriot Arsyad Md Saa, hampered by a hamstring injury, finished sixth.

POOR OUTINGS

MALAYSIA'S 17-year dominance in high jump came to an end as Nauraj Singh Randhawa could only finish second as newcomer Eizlan Dahalan took the bronze.

THE men's football team's decision not to include overage players at first looked to be a good move as the team stunned Thailand. However, the Young Tigers were beaten by Vietnam and Indonesia in the semi-finals and bronze medal playoff.

THE archery team (recurve) yet again failed to win a title with only one silver and three bronze to show. It's a disappointment as Malaysia used to be among the top teams.

PETANQUE targeted two to four gold but embarrassingly failed to win any. Sending a "large" 17-member squad, they returned with only one silver (women's doubles) and two bronze (men's triples and mixed doubles).

SUMMARY

MALAYSIAN sports officials will see this as a successful outing as their 584-member contingent surpassed the target of 36-35-75 by winning 39 gold, 45 silver and 90 bronze. Their "low target" was due to Covid-19. However, it was awkward for Malaysia to send some world-class athletes. For example, Malaysia's clean sweep of all eight diving gold was as one sided as Manchester City playing a division four club.

BAM AND MTBC's bold moves in sending their next generation of athletes instead of the same old faces should be emulated by others.

Sure, Malaysia met their target but the contingent will return from Hanoi with a baggage of worries about the future.