Martin believes Welson and Jinq En will adapt to unique schedule
PETALING JAYA: It’s not only going to be a bizarre experience for the swimmers to race in a virtually empty Olympics venue but they will be put through a unique schedule too.

For the Tokyo Games, the swimming finals will be staged each morning to allow television broadcasters to present races live in prime time back in the United States.

Welson Sim will compete in the men’s 400m freestyle heat tonight while Phee Jinq En is scheduled for the women’s 100m breaststroke the following evening.

Morning finals are rare in the sport with swimmers much more accustomed to starting their day with the heats and saving their fastest times for the evening finals.

Malaysian swimming coach Chris Martin believes that the Olympians will be able to adapt.

“The last time such a schedule was made was in the 2008 Beijing Olympics. The Olympic organisers are accommodating the big sponsors as it would be prime time in US when it’s daytime in Japan.

“But I think there should be no problem as everyone is going to get used to it.
“They had one or two meets running with the same schedule in US for the swimmers to adjust to it.

“It’s going to be a different Olympics with no spectators allowed but the college meets have had the same experience since we had this Covid-19 situation,” said the American coach, who hopes to see his charges put their best foot forward in their second Games appearance.

Welson has the second fastest ranked time in Heat 2 of the 400m freestyle (3:49.55) behind Venezuela’s Mestre Alfonso (3:49.16).

Also swimming in Welson’s heat is Indonesia’s Aflah Fadlan Prawira, who took bronze behind the Malaysian at the 2019 Philippines SEA Games.

Vietnam’s Nguyen Huy Hoang, the gold medallist in the 400m freestyle, is only swimming in the 800m and 1,500m freestyle at the Olympics.

Nguyen made the A qualifying cut for both events for his Olympic debut. Welson is not expected to progress beyond his heat but what the 24-year-old should aim for is at least a season best performance.