Eurasian franchise Mémorie Café launches flagship outlet
PETALING JAYA: Despite it being a weekday, Sunway Pyramid was bustling with shoppers. The atmosphere was made even more festive with the launch of Mémorie Café’s flagship outlet at The Link, the mall’s newly launched retail and dining zone.

Established in 2016, Mémorie Café describes itself as “Malaysia’s first Eurasian restaurant franchise”, and has two other outlets located at Midfields Square in Sungai Besi and Sunway Velocity in Kuala Lumpur.

“We built Mémorie Café to showcase Eurasian culture in Malaysia to the world,” CEO James Thum said at the launch recently. “What better way to do so than through food?

“Eurasian cuisine is relatable to a huge population in the world as it combines foods from the east and west… food that is familiar and, at the same time, allows them to get a grasp of Malaysia’s rich history.”

The event was officiated by Musa Haji Yusof, deputy director-general of Tourism Malaysia, with the support of Tourism Melaka.

A press release issued by the establishment included the definition of Eurasians as “people of any mixed European and Asian ancestry, usually the amalgamation of Portuguese, Dutch, British, Chinese, Malay, Indian, and Peranakan influences”.

Still, café co-founder Audrey Lai told FMT: “Our menu is more Portuguese-influenced as we wanted to focus on one particular group.”

To that end, items on the menu include ikan bakar Portuguese, Portuguese tarts, Portuguese laksa, and Devil Curry Chicken.

The café also serves Eurasian Lamb Smore – slow-cooked Australian lamb shoulder with herbs, leek, celery, carrot, and potatoes – which, according to Lai, is a Dutch-influenced dish.

Another highlight is the Nasi Mémorie: nasi lemak served with Portuguese fish paste, acar, half-boiled egg, fried peanuts, anchovies, and a choice of fried chicken or devil curry chicken.

Then there is a selection of entirely non-Eurasian dishes such as chicken satay, Hainanese toast, and fish and chips. But why?

“We wanted to showcase the history of our country after the Portuguese and Dutch era,” Lai explained, “for example, the arrival of the British and the Chinese immigration to Malaya.”

While this might not entirely explain the existence of curious items such as pasta and green curry, perhaps less isn’t necessarily more when it comes to food, and it’s good to leave diners spoiled for choice.

The new outlet, Lai added, was chosen as their flagship as it is their biggest and situated in a prime location.

Attendees at the launch were treated to a scrumptious buffet lunch, as well as performances by local violinist Nisa Addina, and the Persona Art Dance Theater.

The popular Devil Curry Chicken, or “Kari Debal”, is a delectable dish; thanks to the tasty curry, the meat of the chicken is tender and flavourful.

Despite its name, the gravy is not overly spicy. Enjoy a heaping spoonful of meat, potatoes, and curry for a comforting, feel-good experience.

Meanwhile, the Prawn Bostador is an aromatic dish of fresh seafood cooked in spices and chilli. The juicy flesh of the crustaceans is nicely enhanced by the piquant gravy, making it a perfect accompaniment to hot, fluffy rice.

When it comes to something sweet, the Portuguese tarts are a tantalising option to satisfy your cravings. The rich and creamy filling is encased within a flaky and crumbly pastry – and it may prove to be difficult to stop at just one!