Head to Cheras' Yong Ji Beef Noodles for divine beef cuts with your noodles

KUALA LUMPUR, June 22 — Fans of Pudu's Yung Kee beef noodles can now enjoy their HK style beef noodles at the newly opened outlet called Yong Ji Beef Noodles at Cheras.

Started on June 9, this outlet located at Cheras Perdana is more accessible to those who live around the area. For those who reside in PJ or the KL central area, you can frequent the Pudu outlet which is under the watchful eyes of Yung Kee's owner, Albert Lai.

The menu here features signature favourites from Pudu such as the three treasure noodles that combine short rib, tendon and honeycomb tripe.

You also have some interesting dishes such as braised beef with truffles or red wine sorghum, and omasum or cow's stomach. All of their beef is imported from Australia.

Since it was a big group of us trying the food, we ordered different items to share. Each one of us had individual bowls of noodles with a rich beef broth scented with herbs.

As it was the weekend, they also served their dry noodles that were tossed in a thick sauce made from beef broth. This version is best paired with lai fun, or what they call in their menu laksa noodle.

You have a choice of beef cuts like short ribs, navel, or the inside skirt. There's also sliced beef, which includes an option for Australian Angus beef too. For variety, the three treasures is the best choice.

You can pair the items with noodles of your choice. If you're eating with a few people, just order it on its own to share.

Beef connoisseurs should go for the inside skirt (RM40). It's that part of beef rib found under the diaphragm of the cow and the taste of the meat is simply divine.

You get a buttery, tender texture paired with a rich bovine taste. If you're looking for different textures, the three treasures (RM25) will satisfy.

The tendons are cooked till they become jelly-like. This contrasts with the slightly crunchy honeycomb tripe. You also have tender short ribs.

You can also add on a bowl of beef balls (RM10). These aren't too bouncy and pretty decent tasting.

There are various braised beef dishes that range from the basic braised sirloin to more luxurious items.

For instance, they pair braised short ribs with black truffles or sorghum wine. The braised sirloin (RM40) is tender with a slightly starchy sauce.

For total decadence, go for the black truffles beef ribs (RM120) where they top braised beef ribs with dollops of black truffle paste. The pairing has a mild taste of the truffles only but the texture of the beef ribs goes well with the crunchy omasum.

Adventurous eaters must try the omasum. It was my first time trying out the leaf shaped double stomach. You can either order it with ginger and spring onions (RM25) or just the blanched version (RM20).

The texture of the omasum is crisp and when paired with the soy sauce, ginger and spring onions, it has a refreshing taste. Simply addictive! We were all fighting for the last piece of omasum.

They also serve beef tongue by order. You need to pre-order that item at least one day in advance.

From what I see on the menu at their Pudu outlet, the various beef cuts with noodles, braised sirloin, omasum and beef tongue are also available here too.