Lucky Lucky Foodstore puts a fresh spin on food courts
KUALA LUMPUR: Food courts are an integral part of Malaysia’s diverse and vibrant food culture, offering a different atmosphere and experience from that of traditional brick-and-mortar establishments.

With the rise of coffee shops and tea parlours, however, the traditional food court seems to have fallen by the wayside, especially in the eyes of young Malaysians.

After all, food courts are akin to kopitiam and are antiquated places that are only frequented by old folks, no?

Not so, actually! One new establishment in Kuala Lumpur is putting a spin on the traditional perceptions of food courts。

Located within sight of the gorgeous Tasik Permaisuri, Lucky Lucky Foodstore aims to provide Malaysians with a new dining experience.

In addition to tasty and affordable selections, the place has a sleek and modern appearance, built with diners’ comfort in mind.

With a total of 12 stalls, visitors will be spoiled for choice when it comes to their meals – and it hardly helps that every stall is worth a try!

Upon entering, you will be greeted by the first stall, Chunz, which offers Korean street snacks.

Corn dogs are a quintessentially American snack, but Chunz puts a Korean spin on it with a crunchy outer layer coating the meaty sausage within.

Folks who hang out at the foodie haven that is Petaling Jaya’s SS2 might recognise the next stall: The Bao Guys, who have opened their second outlet here.

Famous for their tasty burger-like bao, you no longer have to wade through the perpetually jammed SS2 to get your fix.

Instead, head on over here to stuff yourself silly with their savoury buns, which are often endowed with cheeky names such as the Cluck Norris or the Phoking Good!

Where there are Malaysians, there will be rice. Here, the Nasi Kandar Headquarter (sic) will help fill that carb-filled hole in your heart.

Choose from the many curries and gravies available, or try it all and drench your rice in a spicy flood!

If you’re on a tight budget, drop by Abah Nasi Campur to have some authentic and homely cuisine without burning a hole in your pocket.

For RM8.50, you can enjoy a decent meal of rice with a meat and vegetable dish, or, alternatively, rice with two vegetable dishes. Quite a catch in this economy.

Moving onto the next stall: Fook Kin Chow offers diners classic wok-fried dishes hot and fresh off the stove, still smoking with flavour.

Reminiscent of “tai chow” restaurants, this stall offers several tasty signatures including salted egg calamari, prawn-paste fried chicken, and XO sauce fried rice.

Next to it is Tang Soup House, where a sharp nose should be able to detect the aromatic scent of herbs and spices.

Chicken soup is said to be good for the soul, and this stall specialises in brewing soups prepared with traditional Chinese herbs.

If you’re in need of a health boost or wish to buy something for a friend who is under the weather, some of Tang Soup House’s offerings may do the trick.

Speaking of rice, no food court would be complete without a chicken rice stall. Into that role steps Sin Chuan Kee, which serves only antibiotic-free, free-range chicken.

As a result, the Hainanese chicken is tender, succulent, and flavourful with every bite.

For something a little different, stop by the next stall. Machos – possibly the manliest-sounding stall around – sells Californian-Mexican street food such as tacos and burritos.

Expect to grow chest hair and a magnificent moustache by the time you are done munching through these delicacies!

For drinks and dessert, take your pick between Lucky Kopi and Larz. The former pays homage to the classic kopitiam, with coffee and kaya toast served by young Malaysians.

The latter, meanwhile, is where you can find all sorts of bubble teas, treats and desserts made with natural and fresh ingredients.

Finally, tucked away in the corner of the food court is Little Boco, which is more a café spot than a stall proper.

Overlooking the lake outside, it is a great place to hang out with friends, perhaps with a cup of coffee and pastry in hand.

If you’re in the area, be sure to drop by Lucky Lucky Foodstore and see which of these delights catches your fancy!