Restaurant chain’s Penang asam laksa honours old family recipe
A PENANGITE-founded and owned chain of restaurants is looking to unify Malaysians from all walks of life over its Penang Asam Laksa, an iconic dish that was ranked seventh on CNN’s list of World’s Best 50 foods in 2020.

MyLaksa co-founder and managing director Daniel Ong said: “MyLaksa was built on a foundation of unity and friendship.

“My best friend and now business partner Hee and I used to catch up over numerous bowls of asam laksa throughout the years, whether we were living in Penang or studying abroad.

“To us, Penang Asam Laksa is the taste of home and unity.”

MyLaksa focuses on making its laksa as authentic as possible. The dish honours an old family recipe that was passed down to Hee’s mother.

The restaurant chain uses succulent morsels of mackerel, hae kor (shrimp paste), tangy asam gelugor and bunga kantan that all contribute to the unique taste of the signature broth.

It acts as the ideal sponge for thick white rice noodles that soak up the perfectly blended flavours of the soup.

The dish is garnished with sliced red onions, crunchy cucumber, coral lettuce, red and green chilli slices and mint leaves.

“We do not compromise on the integrity of the true Penang Asam Laksa. We use complex cooking techniques and won’t resort to shortcuts or fake ingredients.

“Through this sincere approach, we hope MyLaksa can become a household brand name,” Ong continued.

MyLaksa offers three varieties of Penang Asam Laksa – Asam Laksa Kaw Kaw, Asam Laksa Kaw Kaw Special that includes slices of hard-boiled egg and fishballs, and Asam Laksa Royal which adds even more helpings of protein.

“The word kaw means thick in Hokkien and it is now used by Malaysians to describe rich broths.

“This is what makes us special, as we intermingle like the flavours of laksa to create something unique,” he said.

MyLaksa also offers other items such as Choco Berry Frostee. The shaved ice dessert provides the ultimate contrast to the hot and tangy Penang Asam Laksa.

Those who prefer a lighter meal can still enjoy the wholesome flavours of the asam laksa. The protein-heavy snacks of fishballs and eggs are paired with the signature Kaw Kaw broth.

Founded in 2019, MyLaksa has served over five million bowls of Penang Asam Laksa at 16 branches in eight states.

The restaurant chain is part of the IFV Group, which is founded by Malaysian food and beverage entrepreneurs who aim to bring more iconic and multiconcept F&B and lifestyle brands to the region.