Poppu Café: Puchong’s latest healthy breakfast spot
PUCHONG: Over the years, Bandar Puchong Jaya has earned quite a reputation for being ‘the’ spot where much culinary action takes place.

Joining its string of traditional coffee shops serving lip-smacking hawker fare as well as fancy restaurants for special nights out with family and friends, a new café going by an unusual name, has now popped up – Poppu Café.

Upon entering, you’ll pick up the comforting scent of freshly brewed coffee. But coffee aside, this café has quite a few viable food options for you to kickstart your day – that’s why it’s open at 8am just in time for breakfast.

The Daily Granola Bowl is a good way to start your day. With a base of yoghurt, a granola middle and a topping of seasonal fruits, it’s a tasty treat of flavours and textures – sour, salty, crunchy, sweet – and is a winner from the get-go.

Speaking of breakfast, the Delight Breakie is another truly hearty dish that will make anyone on the keto diet happy with its lack of carbs. Consisting of a variety of vegetables, beans, eggs and chicken, it is a dish that looks pretty on the plate and tastes the part too.

Sandwiches are a quick and easy breakfast option, and Poppu’s Signature Sandwiches are a bestseller for a reason. Made with homemade ciabatta bread, the protein-rich Tuna Mayo and Egg Mayo fillings are perfect with a hot cup of coffee.

If you’re not a fan of ciabatta bread, request for a croissant instead, but the sweet and delicate ciabatta is worth trying once at the very least.

If you’re looking for something a little heavier, the Salmon Bowl – the café’s take on the Hawaiian poke bowl – must not be passed up.

Large chunks of fresh salmon adorn this dish complemented by fresh, leafy greens for a dash of colour and some light fibre.

You can choose a base from three options, of which the cauliflower rice is particularly popular, with the absence of carbs being a big selling point.

It is a dish all Malaysians love, now with a healthy twist. It’s none other than Nasi Lemak Tak Lemak, cooked with soy milk instead of the rather calorie-dense coconut milk.

The delicious rice comes with a side of acar, cashews, sambal and chicken.

Coffee aficionados tend to make a beeline for Poppu Café every morning, and you too should get yourself a hot cuppa to enjoy. The Signature Blend Latte, which often comes decorated with foam art, is rather Instagrammable, too.

If you’re up to trying something new and unique, get yourself a glass of Life Essence, a fascinating mix of kombucha and soda water that packs a punch.

Speaking to FMT, owner and co-founder Koo Chong Yi, 30, said Poppu Café was the result of his lifelong love for food.

Offered a chance to open a café in a space shared with a friend, Koo jumped at the opportunity, saying: “The coffee here has a kick to it and a different taste you will have to discover for yourself. Everyone has their own taste of coffee, so there’s lots of surprises awaiting you here.”
