Spotlight on regional Malay dishes
MEALS associated with one’s kampung tend to evoke nostalgia, and the opportunity to break fast with such familiar dishes is a treat after a long day of abstinence.

Sheraton Petaling Jaya Hotel has lined up traditional Malay dishes this Ramadan with two thematic buffets – “Citarasa Rantau” at Feast restaurant and “Santapan Iftar” at its grand ballroom.

The buffet at Feast offers a spread of kampung favourites and modern-day selections.

Highlights include Johor’s Nasi Briyani Gam, Melaka’s Nyonya Ikan Bawal Hitam Asam Pedas, Kelantan’s ayam percik, Rendang Daging Minang and Pahang’s Gulai Tempoyak Ikan Patin.

There are also Middle Eastern specials such as Iranian kubbiedeh (grilled minced lamb) and shish tawouk (grilled chicken cubes) as well as Braised Mussels with Spicy Tomato and Celery, Braised Lamb with Root Vegetables and Roast Herbed Chicken in Thyme Sauce.

The fresh seafood on ice section features poached prawns, green mussels, crab, clams and yabbies.

The buffet is available until May 2 from 6.30pm to 10pm, priced at RM158 (adult) and RM79 for a child.

The buffet at the grand ballroom offers a spread of local classics and international favourites.

Prepared in the hotel’s halal-certified banquet kitchen, highlights include live carving and grill stations such as whole roast lamb marinated with Malay spices, satay, pasembur and bubur lambuk.

The Malay section offers Nyonya Ikan Asam Pedas, Ketam Lemak Cili Api, Ayam Percik Kelantan and Burung Puyuh Berempah.

The dinner is available until tomorrow, from 6.30pm to 10pm, priced at RM98 per adult and RM49 per child.

Those who prefer to break their fast at home can order the “Iftar at Home” takeaway set.

Featured dishes include Nasi Briyani Gam, Nyonya Ikan Bawal Hitam Asam Pedas, Rendang Daging Minang, Nasi Hujan Panas, Udang Galah Masak Rebung, Gulai Tempoyak Ikan Patin and Sayur Campur Lodeh.

The takeaway set is available until May 2, priced at RM250nett.

Takeaway and delivery are available for pre-order via sheratonpjstore.com and 24-hour advance notice is required.