Don’t know where to eat this Raya? Head to Knowhere Bangsar
KUALA LUMPUR: It’s the Raya season – a great time to be Malaysian, especially with lockdowns largely being a thing of the past, for better or for worse.

While a countless many will surely take this opportunity to balik kampung, others might be quite content to stay home or meet up with friends and family instead.

To answer that age-old Malaysian question: “Eh, eat where ah?”, how about swinging by Knowhere Bangsar and checking out its seasonal menu?

Since opening its doors in mid-2018, this trendy restobar has become one of the most recognisable establishments in this bustling part of Kuala Lumpur, with its cosy and colourful dining atmosphere.

This year, the Muslim-friendly restaurant offers its Iftar Bangsar-Wan menu, perfect for those observing the holy month who would like to break their fast with a slap-up meal, or the everyday foodie looking to partake of a sumptuous spread.

Speaking with FMT, head chef Faiz Muizudin said Knowhere Bangsar has drawn inspiration from bazaar fare to create something unique and yet comfortingly familiar.

“We want to give our customers a different experience, and we hope everyone will be able to share these huge portions with their families and friends,” he added.

So what’s cooking? Up for the feasting are six delectable dishes, and you can be assured each one is well worth a try.

First off is the Ayam Golek Raja (RM76.80), featuring the classic bazaar chicken roasted to perfection. Served with a side of spinach kerabu, coconut sauce and tamarind ginger sauce, this whole chicken can easily be shared by three or even four diners!

Given how sinfully scrumptious it is, you might be tempted to have it all to yourself… but it’s the Raya season, so share-share, OK?

You can’t have a good Raya feast without a healthy dose of seafood, so make way for the Sembilang Lemak Podeh (RM48.80).

An impressive sight to behold, the limelight falls upon the catfish cooked in an aromatic turmeric sauce. There is plenty of flesh to go around, each bite savoury with a soft sweetness.

While you might be salivating at the thought of the above two dishes, do note that you have to place your order for them two days in advance.

Next up is the Roti John Bendahara (RM46.80), an exquisite spin on the classic Ramadan treat, served with Knowhere’s signature sambal mayo sauce.

Imagine a warm, fluffy sandwich loaf topped with tasty egg and tri-tip beef steaks grilled to tender perfection. Now imagine no more, because you can actually have your steak and eat it, too!

Leave some room in your stomach for what’s to come. Served hot from the kitchen is the Bangalore Shawarma (RM34.80), a Levantine dish with a Malaysian twist.

The rolled pita bread is stuffed with a generous amount of spicy chicken varuval, which is balanced out by creamy apple raita. Sweet apple chutney on the side adds to the combination of flavours.

Breaking fast is always better when you have a piping-hot murtabak ready to fill your tummy, so crown your plate with the aptly named Murtabak Makhota (RM38.80).

Behold this thing of beauty, with thin, layered roti filled with mutton madras spices and fiery capsicum, plus a generous sprinkling of mozzarella to boot.

While you might be tempted to gorge it all down without a second thought, take the time to dip it into some dhal sauce and sprinkle on some pickled onion. You won’t regret it!

Lastly, but certainly not least, is a delicacy for sweet-teeth – the Churros Keria (RM22.80). Keep an eye on your sugar levels for this treat is bursting with sweetness, with the Malaysian-style churros crispy and soft at the same time!

You absolutely have to dip the churros into the keria sauce, then add the sweetened coconut flakes for double the deliciousness.

This iftar menu will only be available until Monday, May 2, so hurry on over to Knowhere Bangsar to have a great time breaking fast with your loved ones.