Bentong’s 50-year-old dessert shop is as sweet as ever
BENTONG: If there’s one thing you should know about Malaysians, it’s that distance is no obstacle to good food – and that includes desserts.

Every time a public holiday or a long weekend pops up, it’s not uncommon for locals to hop into their cars and speed off to distant food havens. Forget Ipoh, George Town or Melaka though. There are many other underrated food havens that deserve recognition.

Among them is the sleepy town of Bentong, Pahang, which draws Malaysian foodies on the prowl for good fare. Bentong is famous for its ginger and durian, as well as an array of local kopitiams and roadside stalls selling cheap but tasty treats.

The town also possesses a certain old-world charm and many pre-war shophouses are still standing with people either living and working within.

It also helps that many shops have continued to operate for the past decades, with new generations of shopkeepers carrying on their ancestors’ legacies.

One of these humble shops is the TAK Ice Cream Corner, located on the busy Jalan Chui Yin alongside other popular local eateries.

This eatery, as its name implies, is one of Bentong’s two favourite dessert spots where you can satisfy your sweet tooth cravings.

It is also a family-run business and according to the shopkeeper, the eatery has been around for over five decades. Talk about a piece of history!

TAK apparently stands for Tan Ah Kau, the grandfather of the current owner, who also was the founder of this dessert shop.

Whilst a simple-looking establishment, it is neat and tidy, so no discomfort is to be had if you come in for a quick sugar high.

In any case, given the scorching weather these days, expect to find the place crowded at lunchtime.

So, what’s good to have here? Displayed on the tiled wall is a simple menu, consisting of shaved ice desserts, ice-cream and fruit juices.

Place your order at the counter – it’s self-service here. The folks behind the counter are friendly, so don’t hesitate to ask for recommendations.

The three ice-cream flavours available are pandan, yam and coconut and amazingly enough, they are all homemade.

While many enjoy simple scoops of ice-cream, others indulge in the shaved ice desserts that may remind older Malaysians of their favourite ice treats back in the day.

The cendol here is popular and comes in a cup rather than the traditional bowl. Either way, the portion of cendol is generous and there’s sufficient gula melaka to sate your sugar cravings.

‘Love at First Sight’ has such a dreamy name and perhaps it is intended for lovebirds wishing to huddle together and share a dessert. If you’re single and lonely though, don’t stop yourself from ordering this saccharine indulgence, which you may end up eloping with.

Remember to vigorously stir the pink syrup layer at the bottom to spread out the sweetness; not that it was lacking in that department to begin with.

A menu item endowed with the initials of the shop’s founder must be something special, and that’s exactly the case with the TAK Special.

It’s something of a fruity, shaved ice affair, with two watermelon triangles poking out like cat’s ears. Topped with ice-cream, and served with corn and red bean, this is the treat that definitely honours the legacy of the shop’s founder.

Given its size, this dessert is best shared, or just keep it all for yourself, you poor lonely soul.

If you’re worried about the bill, fret not as prices here are amazingly low – those three desserts cost under RM20. Considering that a single dessert in the Klang Valley can sell for that price, this is quite the steal!

Either way, if you find yourself in Bentong, do drop by at TAK Ice Cream Corner for both the food and the experience.