7 ways to host a vegan-friendly Raya open house
If you’re a vegan in Malaysia, you might be accustomed to not being able to fully enjoy open houses due to the limitations of the food served. And if you’re the one hosting an open house, you would want to avoid the awkwardness of having to apologise to guests while trying to accommodate their diet preferences.

So, since Raya is just around the corner, here are seven tips for those with vegan friends or family so you can have a festive open house for all!

1. Vegetarian vs vegan: know the difference

Many still mistakenly think being vegetarian and vegan are the same, with some even assuming the latter word to be the shortened form of the former.

A vegetarian is someone who doesn’t eat meat, including seafood; while a vegan chooses not to support any kind of animal exploitation. This not only involves the decision to omit meat from their diet, but also all kinds of by-products, such as eggs, milk and honey.

It extends to other aspects of living, too, such as clothing (fur, wool, silk) and personal-care products, such as makeup that has been tested on animals. So a vegetarian can be a vegan, but a vegan is not a vegetarian.

2. Ask how strict they are

Some vegans prefer their veggies to not have been cooked with utensils that have been used for meats. If you’re planning on inviting vegans to your open house, it’s always best to be sure what they are comfortable with.

3. Prepare at least one main dish free from animal by-products

There are several Malaysian dishes that are vegan by default. Lontong is one example, and it can be enjoyed without sambal, which likely has ikan bilis.

Nasi ulam, packed with fresh antioxidant-rich herbs and served without fish, is one of the most underrated plant-based superfood dishes around. Another favourite would be lemang with peanut sauce.

Otherwise, you can’t go wrong with a dish of stir-fried mixed veggies. Simple but delicious!

4. Bring out the plant-based protein

Stumped on where Malaysian vegans get their protein from? It’s most likely right under your nose, in the form of tempeh and tofu.

Tempeh consists of 20% protein and is one of the most reliable, high-quality plant-based sources in the world. Tofu serves up at least 10% protein.

Both are cheap and readily available over the Raya season. Other plant-based options include long beans, peanuts, dhal, broccoli, bayam, and kacang merah or kacang hijau cooked into bubur.

5. Keep dairy and sugar separate

If you intend to serve milky beverages at your open house such as bandung or teh tarik, keep the milk separate from the drinks, giving guests the freedom to add it at their own discretion.

White sugar might appear vegan, but the bleaching process typically uses a carbon filter made of cattle bones. Unrefined and/or organic brown sugar is a safe choice of sweetener for vegans.

You can also offer palm sugar in the form of powdery gula merah or shaven gula melaka.

6. Go kuih-zy

One of Malaysia’s gifts to dessert-loving vegans is kuih! Many of these bite-sized delights are naturally vegan and gluten-free, thanks to their base of glutinous rice or tapioca, and customary use of coconut milk and palm sugar.

Kuih koci, kuih sago, ang koo, kuih talam, onde-onde and dodol are just some of the bite-sized delights all guests can enjoy. Or, to play it safe, fresh fruit will also serve as a delightful palate cleanser.

7. Have a sharing session

If you intend on inviting a vegan to your open house, it’s an opportunity for you to find out more about their way of life.

Each vegan has his or her own reasons for choosing the lifestyle, be it for health, the environment, and/or compassion. Connecting with people who have different values helps break down barriers and misconceptions, which will not only maintain harmony but also ignite positive changes in the community.
