Fujiwara Tofu Shop: the secret café for fans of cars and anime
SUBANG JAYA: On most days, Taman Perindustrian USJ 1 is a desolate place, primarily occupied by car workshops. At a glance, you might assume you’d have to look elsewhere for food – and you would not be entirely wrong.

But, should you visit on a weekend, you might notice a strange abundance of people, most of them flocking to a single shoplot at the end of a street.

Upon investigating, you will find a little eatery that would not look out of place in Tokyo, what with its signage written in Japanese. Curiously, this establishment draws two vastly different groups: car enthusiasts… and anime fans.

As it turns out, the Fujiwara Tofu Shop is inspired by a similar location found in the universe of the Japanese street-racing manga series “Initial D”.

The iconic white AE86 Trueno located outside the shop should serve as a giveaway, as it is the vehicle helmed by the series’ protagonist.

Although the comic series ended in 2013, it still has a legion of fans, even here in Malaysia where the anime played on national television in the early 2000s.

As for the Fujiwara Tofu Shop, it opened its doors on April 1 and has since seen brisk business with fans checking out the place, as well as foodies hungering for its fare.

Getting a table might be a challenge during peak hours. While waiting, though, feel free to admire the many memorabilia and collectibles, or play the old-timey arcade racing games – it’s quite a way to relive the Noughties!

Upon being seated, browse through the aptly car-shaped menu. While not extensive, the offerings here are nevertheless delightful.

Given its name, it should be no surprise that the Fujiwara Tofu Shop boasts tofu pudding, popularly known as taufu fa. The homemade soya bean dessert here is soft and silky-smooth, with hardly a blemish.

Of course, you have to enjoy it with some sweet syrup. In the current scorching weather, this cold treat is absolutely perfect.

It is, of course, only tradition to enjoy taufu fa with a drink of chilled soymilk – a popular thirst-quencher here – so go ahead and order yourself a serve.

If you’re hungry, you’re in luck: Fujiwara dishes up more than just desserts and drinks. Its main courses come in generous portion sizes that make the already reasonable prices well worth it.

The chicken Katsu Don is one option that doesn’t disappoint, featuring cutlets served in a tasty Japanese curry.

Fried to perfection, the chicken has a crispy layer encasing a thick and meaty filling, while the curry is actually spicy rather than being purely sweet, as a lot of Japanese curries tend to be.

Alternatively, order the Gyudon, which features rice topped with beef and onion that has been simmered in a sweet sauce.

This is the perfect mains for folks with a sweet tooth, and it helps that the beef is cooked to tender perfection, encouraging you to lick the bowl squeaky clean.

For a tasty snack, order another tofu dish – this time, instead of pure white tofu, the homemade black tofu is made with charcoal and is definitely worth a place at the table.

The colour might raise some eyebrows, but rest assured this is not the infamous stinky tofu, and no noses will have to be pinched.

Served with a tangy garlic chilli sauce, the soft and smooth beancurd has a thin, crispy skin and a savoury flavour that blends well with the dip.

If you are hankering for something homelier, you can’t go wrong with the homemade fried chicken, a crowd-pleaser that works as a side dish or an appetiser.

Once you start popping these addictive bites into your mouth, there’s no telling if and when you will ever stop!

Speaking with FMT, co-owner Lim Wai Hong said he and his partners, CK Chan and Hong Zhai, are fans of the manga, and this restaurant is a dream come true for them.

While they largely lacked experience in running a restaurant, he and his friends have learnt much through trial and error.

“It took teamwork to get started. There were a lot of problems, but we overcame them one by one,” he shared.

And, given that he has served customers and fellow “Initial D” fans from Singapore, Japan, and even distant Libya, this passion project can be deemed a resoun-D-ing success!
