Yuan Kie: cheap and tasty yong tau foo in Bentong
BENTONG: Given that many work and live in Malaysia’s concrete jungles, it is no surprise that escapades to the countryside are popular.

Scattered throughout the country, far away from the sprawling cities are little towns that harken back to the days of yonder.

Counted among these little havens of history is Bentong, a rural town in Pahang that often draws tourists on account of its quaintness.

A former mining town, Bentong is now famous as an agricultural centre, with its crops of ginger and durian often selling for high prices in cities.

On the tourism side of things, being only an hour’s drive from Kuala Lumpur means a day trip to Bentong is highly doable.

Interestingly, Bentong is also something of a foodie’s dream come true, with good food at cheap prices sold in the town’s many pre-war shophouses.

Among the more famous eateries is Yuan Kie Kopitiam, which often earns a spot in lists of foodie destinations in Bentong.

Located on the busy Jalan Chui Yin, home to many equally popular eateries, the kopitiam occupies a strategic corner lot, with ample space to park your car.

The crowds come in droves, particularly for breakfast and lunch, making this humble kopitiam a hive of activity from 8am to 2pm. Needless to say, you have to exercise some patience before a table is available for you.

So, why does this kopitiam attract so much attention? Folks here claim that their yong tau foo, wanton noodles, and mixed rice are the best in town.

Unfortunately, FMT was unable to try the famous wanton noodles as it was sold out by 11am. Quite a shame, as the soy sauce mix is said to be uniquely thick and savoury compared to any found in the Klang Valley.

So, the next best option was to make a beeline for the yong tau foo and chee cheong fun stall.

Bentong has a reputation for its homemade yong tau foo and the hawker at this kopitiam makes everything herself too.

There is a large array of yong tau foo options here from stuffed brinjal and okra to meatballs and tofu.

While many Malaysians enjoy their chee cheong fun with the traditional soy sauce, in Bentong, the curry option is preferred. The creamy curry is best paired with a little sweet sauce for depth of flavour.

The flat noodles here are so silky, soft and smooth, you might just end up slurping the entire plate in a matter of seconds. Even more amazing is that this will set you back by only RM5.50, making it a truly affordable treat.

If you love yong tau foo, the stuffed brinjal here make for a tasty side dish but the stuffed tofu puff takes the cake. It helps that the hawker is generous with the meat stuffing, ensuring every mouthful is flavourful and savoury.

For folks hankering for rice with dishes, the economy rice stall also sees quite brisk business, with a variety of options for hungry customers.

Once you’re done, perhaps cross the street to the neighbouring shops, where you can buy fresh produce. Alternatively, wander down the street to the TAK Ice Cream Corner for delicious cool treats to beat the heat.

Either way, you won’t be lacking for food in Bentong, what with every food option worth a try in this quaint little town.