Barista Experience Academy: the one-stop shop for coffee lovers
KUALA LUMPUR: Have you ever watched the barista in your favourite café deftly make latte art on your coffee and wished you could also do it? Or have you had dreams of being a barista yourself, but don’t know where you can be trained?

These were the thoughts on Dennis Hew’s mind in 2013 when he began to develop a love for coffee and wanted to learn more. He searched online for suitable places but, despite managing to locate a venue, discovered it was not cheap.

Undeterred, Hew decided to work as a part-time barista to hone his skills. “Back then, the café scene in Malaysia was booming,” the 38-year-old recalled, adding that latte art – the beautiful patterns made on top of a beverage – was still something relatively new.

Soon, he found himself training new employees on how to make a good cup of coffee. Eventually, his boss offered him the opportunity to start a class in the café to teach others who would also like to learn.

“In 2017, I had my first class where I taught students how to make espresso, steam milk, and create latte art,” he said, sharing that most of them signed up because they were intrigued by the creative aspect.

It has since been a continuous stream of classes for Hew, who has never looked back. And last year, he started the Barista Experience Academy, where he and his team of trainers conduct barista courses and latte-art workshops.

“We teach in depth about espresso, milk steaming, brew temperature and brew pressure, as well as the different types of coffee machines and grinders. This is not limited to those who want to be a barista – even those who are simply interested in coffee are welcome,” he told FMT.

The course is divided into nine classes over three months, with students free to attend at a pace convenient for them as opposed to three consecutive months.

They can also purchase just the first three classes – or one module – and come back for the rest when they are free. Each class runs for four hours.

The latte-art workshop, meanwhile, is an introductory course for newcomers. Each session is two and a half hours long and is suitable for casual and serious learners.

Although his students are usually in their 20s or 30s, some have been as young as 10 and as old as 65. They come from all over Malaysia – including Johor Bahru, Taiping and Penang – and Hew has even had participants from other countries such as Brunei and Canada.

“I also received requests from people in Japan and Hong Kong, asking me to fly over to teach them.” This, he said, sparked in him the idea of producing a book so he could share his knowledge with everyone.

To that end, “Everybody Latte Arts!: A Café or Home Barista Latte Artist Tutorial Book”, was published in February last year. “It teaches people how to choose an espresso machine, what kind of machine is suitable for you, as well as how to make latte art,” Hew said.

Asked about the most important factor in latte-art creation, he replied: “The trick is to keep practising. Record yourself pouring, and analyse it after.”
For the love of coffee

As if he weren’t busy enough, Hew operates a coffee bar at Kedai KL, the artisanal marketplace where the academy is located, on weekends.

Apart from bestsellers such as the iced sea salt café latte and iced Aerocano, which is a frothed iced Americano, his wife sells baked goods such as cakes and fresh sourdough bread.

This is also where students from the Barista Experience Academy are given the opportunity to get practical training in making brews and serving customers.

“I recruit my students with potential – although 90% of them do not have a coffee machine – and, through this opportunity, they can gain hands-on experience while getting paid.”

As for the future, “I hope to have a space where my team and I can serve customers in the front and have a classroom at the back, so we can hold courses not just on coffee, but perhaps even on baking and the culinary arts”, Hew shared.

“With so many cafés opening, more and more people want to learn about coffee. So, if you’re one of them and want to have fun as you learn, come and join us.”