Decades-old ‘New Otard’ keeps cooking up a storm
PUCHONG: Despite how lucrative the restaurant business can be, many eateries in Malaysia tend to have a limited lifespan.

It is not uncommon to see a café having a grand opening one day and having its doors shuttered for good just a few months later.

Given the tight competition and sluggish economy, perhaps this will be a recurring sight for the next decade or so.

Hence, when a restaurant has survived for decades and continues to feed hungry patrons through good times and bad, you can bet that it has something going for it.

In the busy suburb that is Puchong, one restaurant, which lacks the frills and comforts of modern cafés, continues to serve its loyal customers since opening decades ago.

Located in Bandar Puchong Jaya, New Otard is, at its core, an ordinary Chinese family restaurant serving “dai chow” fare.

For the uninitiated, “dai chow” translates to “big fry” in Cantonese, and refers to a variety of stir-fried dishes you can order for a meal.

New Otard has been serving the local community since the 1990s and every weekend night, the restaurant is jam-packed with ravenous customers.

It may not look like much from the outside, but the simple café is comfortable and clean inside, making it a decent dining experience for all in the family.

While some customers are out for a round of drinks with friends, most are families gathered for a good and hearty meal at reasonable prices.

Do note that the wait for your food might take a while here. The kitchen prefers to shoot out all your orders at once rather than serving you piecemeal.

So, what’s good to have here?

Like any respectable Chinese restaurant, seafood is a must, with a decent selection of fish to choose from. Crabs too are available, depending on the season.

Most folks order either tilapia or catfish, both of which are more affordable. Regardless, you can’t go wrong by ordering Cantonese steamed fish, served in soy sauce and adorned with ginger and scallion.

The fish here is almost always of good quality, abundant with flesh flavoured further by the savoury soy sauce. Feel free to pick the bones clean!

If you are hungering for something more terrestrial and less aquatic, perhaps give the Black Pepper Venison a try?

Ignoring your feelings about eating Bambi, you will find that venison is an undeniably delicious meat with a rich, gamey flavour.

While it may not be as juicy and succulent as beef, it is definitely smoother and firmer, which makes it all the better to enjoy in all its spicy glory.

For an equally filling dish, reserve some space in your tummy for the Fried Tofu, a treat that can be surprisingly addictive.

Served in savoury, sweet and salty sauce, the Fried Tofu is adorned with chewy and tasty flakes that might end up being shovelled into your mouth by the spoonful.

The tofu itself is soft with a crispy outer layer, but the flakes certainly add to the texture and flavours that will tantalise your taste buds.

Last but certainly not least is the Kangkung Belacan, a simple but tasty vegetable dish. With soft leaves and crunchy stems, this vegetable is a crowd-pleaser, especially when cooked in a generous amount of spicy belacan.

By the time you call for the bill, the plate of greens would likely be picked clean with not a shred of vegetable left.

So, the next time you’re looking to enjoy food that reminds you of home and hearth, pop by New Otard and enjoy yourself a simple but tasty feast.