Grandma woks up wholesome meals
IT’S hard to get excited about chap fan (economy rice) but I discovered appetising dishes at an outlet that had me wanting second helpings.

Located in a pre-war shophouse in Pudu, Kuala Lumpur, the Keng Hing coffeeshop was started by Madam Chew and her husband in 1968.

Today, it is run by her two daughters at the front of the house and the main draw is its chap fan.

Despite being situated beside the main road, Keng Hing isn’t too noisy.

The shoplot is also well-ventilated, making it very comfortable for dining in.

The coffeeshop is not crowded during weekdays and those who dine there tend to be from the older generation.

Nevertheless, the two Leow sisters are kept busy by a steady stream of customers who turn up for takeaway, many bringing their own food containers.

One well-heeled regular, whose husband owns a factory nearby, usually has lunch with her spouse at the coffeeshop.

She said her husband helped the family secure the current premises 12 years ago when they had to move the business from its previous location across the street.

The sisters, who are both in their 50s, work very efficiently.

In the morning, wantan noodles and toasted sweet buns spread with butter and kaya are available.

In the afternoon, the younger sister mans the chap fan station, taking phone and in-person orders and packing takeaway, while the elder sister handles drink orders and clears tables almost immediately after customers depart.

In fact, this kopitiam is very clean and has a “B” cleanliness rating by Kuala Lumpur City Hall’s health department.

At the chap fan station, the younger sister can be seen chatting with regulars, creating a convivial atmosphere.

She is very pleasant and doesn’t seem to tire of repeating all the dish options as customers arrive, even taking the time to describe flavours to help indecisive diners.

It is also impressive to see the elder sister delivering drinks to regular customers even before they reach their tables!

As for Chew, the diminutive matriarch is still the kitchen boss and makes her appearance later in the afternoon to check on how fast the chap fan dishes are moving.

The chap fan spread comprises almost 30 dishes with daily specials like cha yoke (braised pork belly) on Mondays and these are all cooked at the back of the coffeeshop by Chew.

Photos of the dishes are regularly uploaded to the coffeeshop’s Facebook page by Chew’s granddaughter.

Chew starts cooking at 9am every day with the help of her younger daughter.

“The dishes are all available around 11.30am.

“If anything runs out early, I’ll cook more,” said the soft-spoken octogenarian.

Empty platters start to pile up around 1.30pm and there is very little left by 2pm when the women begin to wind down for the day.

“We consume any leftovers for lunch and dinner,” said Chew, who lives at the premises.

Home cooks will appreciate the thought and effort that go into preparing so many dishes daily, what more by a sprightly 84-year-old.

Around 11am when the hot food is brought out, the lovely aroma is enough to whet any appetite.

Each dish at the station is visually appealing, making it hard to choose but there is something to suit every palate.

Most importantly, the food is delicious.

Meats are flavourful and tender while the cooked vegetables retain their colour and texture.

A regular customer said the prices are a bit high but it is worth the money.

“The food is of good quality and is prepared fresh daily,” said the office worker.

Indeed, it’s easy to see why customers keep coming back for the wholesome meals.

I would have gone back for seconds myself had the food not run out by the time I finished eating.

I certainly won’t need much prompting to make a return trip.