Tangy Sarawak classic
Tomato noodles is a street dish that is popular in Kuching, Sarawak.

It resembles kong fu chow or Cantonese-style noodles with its thick egg gravy, except that it features a tangy and sweet tomato gravy derived from bottled ketchup.The noodles usually used for this dish is Sarawak mee kolok which is similar to the egg noodles used in wantan mee, but it is also common for patrons to ask for sautéed kuey teow (flat rice noodles) or crispy fried mee hoon (rice vermicelli) to be used instead.

Although there are many shops in Sarawak serving halal versions of this dish, aficionados will insist that char siew (barbecued pork) has to be one of the accompaniments. Prawns, sliced fish cake and choy sum (mustard greens) are other must-have ingredients.

Some stalls include squid, tomatoes, bean sprouts and firm tofu.

All components of the dish can be made ahead of time, and kept aside separately to keep the noodles crispy.

To assemble just before serving, heat up the gravy and adjust its seasoning and consistency.

Then pour it over the crispy noodles with the accompaniments. The gravy should be soupy with a slight starchy consistency.

You may garnish the dish with sliced chillies and spring onion. Some stalls even include fried shallots. The only condiment to go with this dish is red chillies in vinegar.
Tomato crispy noodles

Ingredients

500g dried mee kolok or fresh egg noodles

2 cups cooking oil

200g char siu

100g mustard greens

2 stalks spring onion, shredded and soaked in cold water

1 pod red chilli

1 tablespoon black vinegar

Prawn broth

250g fresh prawns

1 tbsp cooking oil

4 cups cold water

1 cube anchovy stock

Tomato gravy

1 tbsp cooking oil

20g fresh ginger

3 cloves garlic, minced

1 cup prawn broth

2 tbsp oyster sauce

6 tbsp ketchup

3 tomatoes, cut into wedges

100g fish cake, sliced

2 tbsp cornstarch + 2 tbsp cold water

½ tsp white pepper to taste

1 tbsp light soy sauce to taste

Method

Shell and devein prawns, reserving the heads and shells for the broth, and the prawn flesh for the garnish.

To make the prawn broth, heat a tablespoon of oil in a pot and fry prawn shells and heads.

When oil has turned red, add water and anchovy stock cube. Simmer over medium heat for about 30 minutes until reduced to one cup of broth.

If using dried noodles, cook them in boiling water for about two minutes until al dente, rinse with cold water and drain well.

If using fresh egg noodles, loosen the tightly wound ball of noodles, then gather into a loose mound.

Heat oil in a saucepan and deep-fry either the dried or fresh egg noodles for about two minutes on each side until light golden and crispy. Set aside until ready to assemble.

To make the tomato gravy, sauté ginger and garlic with cooking oil until wilted, then deglaze with prawn broth.

Season with oyster sauce, ketchup, light soy sauce and white pepper to taste. Add tomatoes, fish cake and prawn flesh and poach until cooked through.

Finally, add mustard greens to blanch, then immediately remove to keep its green colour.

Thicken the sauce with cornstarch slurry and adjust seasoning to taste. Add more water as necessary to get the consistency of a thick soupy gravy.

Pour the gravy over the noodles and assemble the meat and vegetables over the noodles. Serve hot with red chillies in vinegar on the side.
