Kuching baker’s 3D cakes can pass for the real thing
PETALING JAYA: Ever seen a cake so realistic, it’s hard to believe it’s a cake until it’s cut in half? Well, be prepared for some truly jaw-dropping creations from The Rolling Panda that are so masterfully created it can fool the eye.

This Kuching-based bakery by Abigail Lim has been creating a wide range of delicious cakes – 25 flavours in all – since 2012. “I’ve always enjoyed food in all forms, whether making it or eating it and I also really love the creative arts, so this business was the natural solution where I could combine both my interests,” she told FMT.

She started her bakery because there weren’t many people around offering highly customisable cakes, and even fewer working with fondant. “So, I noticed this hole in demand that could be filled by my particular set of interests and skills,” she said, adding that while the cakes are visually-pleasing, they must also taste delicious.

And she has definitely achieved her goal by masterfully creating unique designs that look so realistic, it’s hard to think of eating it and destroying the perfection.

From delightful birthday cakes to 3D recreations of famous Sarawak food, Lim can create just about anything a customer requests. “The first 3D cake I created was in 2013 when my cousin first asked for a shark-shaped cake though it did not turn out like I envisioned,” she laughed, adding that she vowed to practise until she perfected her craft.

One of her most popular cakes today is the 3D Sarawak laksa cake. She explained that at the time, bakers were already creating gravity defying ‘floating’ cakes but no one had tried re-creating Sarawak Laksa as a cake. “I was inspired by those fake food displays you see at ramen shops in Japan and decided to make something very specific to Sarawak.”

Self-taught, Lim said she began baking when she was just 10 years old under the guidance of her mother, aunt and grandmother.

Lim recalls spending her childhood watching cooking shows on TV and poring over the many cookbooks she begged her parents to buy her whenever they were in a bookstore.

“I used to bake things to take to school for my classmates as I really enjoyed seeing their reaction,” she said, adding that their happy smiles motivated her to continue baking.

She said that when a customer places an order with her, she helps guide them through the process of the design so they get exactly what they envision.

And for those of you not from Sarawak, fret not as Lim still takes on orders from anywhere in the region – even Singapore. “As long as my customers are able to cover the logistic costs I can deliver anywhere.”

However, since sending a cake outstation takes prior planning, and she requests that customers place their order at least a month in advance.

With the success of Rolling Panda, Lim opened ‘White by The Rolling Panda’ in 2019, specialising in wedding cakes. “I am actually working on relocating to Kuala Lumpur in 2023 and I am hoping to grow both The Rolling Panda and White by The Rolling Panda once I relocate.”