Certified authentic Spanish food in Malaysia
Marta’s Kitchen and Mercat Barcelona Gastrobar in Kuala Lumpur have been awarded the Certificate “Restaurants of Spain”, with the unveiling of plaques at the entrance of the restaurants. The certification scheme was launched by the Spanish government to recognise and support restaurants offering authentic food outside Spain.

After congratulating the restaurants for their consistent and hard work, Economic and Commercial Counsellor of the Embassy of Spain, Ines Perez-Durantez highlighted that both restaurants “become benchmarks for all those seeking the authenticity of our cuisine, and providesinspiration for those interested in knowing more about Spanish food and the Spanish gastronomic revolution that has taken place in the last decade”, referring to the creative movement with deep implications in the perception of food and culinary arts, with a whole generation of Spanish chefs inspired by the geniality of Ferran Adriá.

Spain is home to some of the best chefs and fine-dining restaurants, ranking every year within the top five countries with more Michelin-starred restaurants. San Sebastian alone, a small city in the north of Spain, is home to 11 Michelin-starred restaurants.

“We hope that enjoying Spanish food in Malaysia, in Mercat, in Marta’s and other restaurants that will follow their example, we will enhance your interest in our gastronomy and our culture”, concluded Pérez-Durantez.

Marta Alonso Garcia who started Marta's Kitchen 13 years ago said the certification is "the recognition of many years of hard work.". The former teacher relocated to Malaysia when her IT engineer husband was posted here, and started a restaurant when her catering business grew in leaps and bounds.

Spanish chef David Caral decided to open Mercat Barcelona Gastrobar in Mont Kiara to replicate the dynamic dining scene of Barcelona. He believed that going for 100% top-quality Spanish products since the very beginning was what granted them the recognition that they have nowadays.
