Chartered Bankers play vital role in strengthening financial sector, says Azman
PETALING JAYA: Chartered Bankers must perform their duties with the highest standards of professionalism and ethics in order to strengthen public trust and confidence in the financial sector, says a prominent banker.

Azman Hasim, the chairman of the Asian Institute of Chartered Bankers (AICB), said one of the core focuses of the banking industry is to strengthen public trust and confidence.

“Having a strong pipeline of Chartered Bankers who are competent and able to perform their duties with the highest standards of professionalism and ethics is crucial to the development, stability and growth of the financial sector and the broader economy,” he said.

Azman was speaking at the ceremony to present the excellence awards at AICB’s 5th Chartered Banker Conferment 2022 recently to honour and recognise 177 newly-conferred Chartered Bankers who have successfully completed the internationally recognised professional banking qualification.

He added that the industry needed more Chartered Bankers who not only possess strong core skills in credit, lending, and risk management but a deep understanding of the ethical and social purpose of banking.

“As responsible and sustainable banking becomes the future, there will be greater emphasis on the environmental, social and governance (ESG) agenda in banking.”

In a statement, the AICB said the qualification will equip the new Chartered Bankers with the knowledge and skills to lead the transformation of the banking sector towards a more dynamic ecosystem driven by digitalisation, and responsible and sustainable banking.

“This global banking professional certification will also help to future-proof the next generation of bankers in Malaysia, helping to contribute to the nation’s position among the leading financial hubs in the region,” said the AICB, which is the sole professional body for the banking industry in the country.

AICB chief executive Edward Ling said bankers face a continuous learning process as the demands of banking continue to evolve and grow.

“It is imperative for bankers to upskill and reskill themselves for the future and ensure they adapt and thrive in the rapidly evolving landscape,” he said.

AICB is the only Institute authorised by the Chartered Banker Institute, UK, to award the Chartered Banker status in Southeast Asia.

There are now 630 Chartered Bankers in Malaysia and a strong pipeline of bankers who are at various stages of progression in the Chartered Banker programme.