MIDF cuts its year-end target for FBM KLCI

KUALA LUMPUR: MIDF Research has reduced its FBM KLCI end-2022 target to 1,600 points from 1,680 points previously.

The research house expects the key benchmark index to remain below the normal historical range due to the negative impact of the US Federal Reserve’s aggressive tightening of its monetary policy on global financial liquidity, and the higher risk attached to earnings forecasts.

“However, going forward, we expect the local equity market valuation to inch higher from the current levels in line with the expectation of better earnings next year,” MIDF Research said in its second half of the year stock market outlook report.

Year-to-date, the FBM KLCI had fallen 7.87% on June 30, 2022, closing at 1,444.22, compared to 1,567.53 recorded on Dec 31, 2021.

On a quarterly basis, MIDF Research said that global indices saw a volatile second quarter (Q2 2022) performance.

The FBM KLCI closed the first quarter higher by 1.3% but declined by 8.4% in the second quarter as of June 27, 2022.

On sector calls for the second half of the year, the research house is positive on automotive, banking, construction, consumer, and healthcare.

It also likes the oil and gas, plantation, technology, media and real estate investment trust (REIT) sectors.

It reckons that the upcoming award of Mass Rapid Transit 3 (MRT3) tenders may generate some feelgood vibes for the construction sector.

However, MIDF is neutral on the gloves, power, property, telecommunication and transportation sectors (which include aviation, ports and logistics).

The research house has remained sanguine on economic prospects for the country, especially with the reopening of the economy, with commodity players set to benefit from elevated commodity prices.

“With the economy and corporate earnings growth expectation remaining intact, it may seem a bit perplexing that Malaysia’s (and Asean peers’) equity markets continue to be sluggish. We believe that it boils down to valuation,” it said.

It also expects domestic economic activities to continue expanding steadily, driven by higher consumer spending and business expenditure, while the external trade sector is forecast to grow at a solid pace, underpinned by elevated commodity prices and expansionary regional demand.

The research firm also maintains its forecast for Malaysia’s gross domestic product growth at 6% for 2022.