MTDC pledges to drive SMEs towards IR4.0
PETALING JAYA: The Malaysian Technology Development Corporation (MTDC) has declared its commitment to helping small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) adapt to the current digital landscape.

“Many of these companies use mainly manual processes and are labour-intensive, making it difficult to reach the market,” said technology ventures director Hazani Hassan.

He added that through the Industrial Revolution 4.0 (IR4.0), such companies will be able to benefit from the development of technology including the Internet-of-Things that can aid with productivity and create better market reach.

The company director shared that various programmes were organised such as Road2Growth which provides technology and business development opportunities for SMEs.

The annual programme focuses on technology and business development opportunities through partnerships with MTDC’s ecosystem of member companies, with participants comprising SME entrepreneurs, graduates, researchers, and startups.

Participants are able to gain exposure to products and services by the company and its ecosystem members as well as the opportunity to get detailed information on technology solutions from companies in the robotic, automation, 3D printing, augmented reality, and drone technology fields.

“Participants are also exposed to programmes on technology adaptation in their business and graduates attending this programme can benefit from adapting to IR4.0 and digitalisation as this will enhance local talent and add value to the quality of learning in the future,” he said.

Participants also have the opportunity to work with the Centre of 9 Pillars (Co9P) in a hybrid manner, depending on the technology to be built.

“With this hub network (Co9P), SME entrepreneurs have the opportunity to collaborate and expand business networks to improve existing solutions and technology that can be adapted in their businesses,” he said.

He added that Johor will be the fourth destination in the MTDC Road2Growth programme after Sabah, Sarawak, and Penang.

MTDC is looking for business partners to conduct programmes with Co9P community members established in Kuala Lumpur, Sabah, Sarawak, Terengganu, and Johor.