Automotive sector has priced in SST factor, rate hike uncertainty, says analyst
PETALING JAYA: The automotive sector has priced in the uncertainties surrounding the sales and services tax (SST) and the interest rate scenario, said an analyst.

Finance minister Tengku Zafrul Aziz recently signalled that the exemption of the SST for the purchase of vehicles might not be extended.

For 2022, the Malaysian Automotive Association (MAA) has projected a total industry volume (TIV) of 600,000 units.

Similarly, RAM Ratings shares a similar target with the association.

Its analyst Ben Inn said the agency’s TIV forecast did not pencil in an extension of the SST exemption as there has not been any announcement on the matter despite a request from the industry.

“In addition, we have also taken into account the rising interest rate environment for this year,” he told FMT Business.

Moving forward, Inn sees the forex factor as definitely a concern for the sector, especially for component makers and car manufacturers.

“On this front, we’re already seeing rising car prices as some brands have made adjustments to the car prices and those who do not will see their margins affected,” he said. “Although the market has seen a strong demand, the rising prices will affect consumers that are in a tight situation who are sensitive to price movement.”

On Friday, Zafrul revealed that the SST exemption for vehicles which is set to end on June 30, 2022 has translated to a loss of RM4.8 billion in government revenue.

“During the Movement Control Order period until now, we have extended it several times but the loss of revenue is RM4.8 billion. That is a large amount that we can use to help the people,” he had said.

Earlier this year, MAA revealed its sales projection of 600,000 units which was expected to be supported by the SST exemption until June 30, 2022, deliveries and production on a backlog of orders.

For the first four months of this year, MAA reported that the TIV stood at 215,965 units, an 8% increase over 200,043 units reported in the corresponding period of the previous year.