Malaysia’s PMI up in June, signalling improvement in manufacturing
KUALA LUMPUR: The seasonally adjusted S&P Global Malaysia manufacturing purchasing managers’ index (PMI) registered 50.4 in June, up from 50.1 in May, signalling a slightly stronger, yet still modest, improvement in the manufacturing sector.

The sector saw overall operating conditions improve at a slightly quicker rate halfway through 2022 so far and production levels stabilised for the first time following five consecutive monthly declines, while new orders rose for the third month running, albeit only fractionally.

S&P Global Market Intelligence chief business economist Chris Williamson said Malaysia’s manufacturers reported a steady but unspectacular end to the second quarter, underscoring how the economic recovery has lost some steam compared to the start of the quarter.

“Companies are reporting sluggish export sales and growing concerns over the rising cost of living, especially in terms of rising energy and fuel prices.

“Both input costs and average selling prices are rising sharply again, suggesting inflationary pressures continue to build,” he said in a research note today.

While there was good news in terms of some supply constraints showing clear signs of easing which should help alleviate some industrial price pressures, global energy and food supply have become increasing sources of concern, he noted.

Meanwhile, the Asean manufacturing PMI registered 52.0 in June, down slightly from 52.3 in May.

Commenting on the Asean manufacturing PMI data, economist Maryam Baluch said the latest PMI data signalled a further loss in growth momentum across the region’s manufacturing sector.

“Firms, despite increasing production levels and receiving higher volumes of new orders, cut back on headcounts, holdings of raw materials and semi-finished items in June.

“Growth slowed in four of the seven monitored nations in June while Myanmar recorded a decline.

“Surging inflation, raw material shortages and energy price hikes impacted each region in one way or another,” she said in a separate statement.

Nevertheless, sentiment was positive across the Asean manufacturing sector with industry observers hopeful that output would expand in the coming 12 months, she added.